 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
1
 Securities Listing Regulations 
(as of December 8, 2025) 
Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. 
 
Contents 
Part 1 General Provisions (Rule 1 to Rule 8) 
Part 2 Stocks, etc. 
 Chapter 1 General Provisions (Rules 101) 
 Chapter 2 Initial Listing 
  Section 1 General Provisions (Rule 201 to Rule 203) 
  Section 2 Initial Listing on Standard Market (Rule 204 to Rule 209) 
  Section 3 Initial Listing on Prime Market (Rule 210 to Rule 215) 
Section 4 Initial Listing on Growth Market (Rule 216 to Rule 221) 
 Section 5 Public Offering or Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing (Rule 222) 
Section 6 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rules 223 to Rule 226) 
 Chapter 3 Listing of New Stocks, etc. and Transfer of Market Segments 
  Section 1 Listing of New Stocks, etc. (Rule 301 to Rule 305) 
  Section 2 Transfer of Market Segments (Rule 306 to Rule 310) 
Section 3 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 311) 
 Chapter 4 Listing Supervision 
  Section 1 General Provisions (Rule 401) 
  Section 2 Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information, etc. (Rule 402 to Rule 420) 
  Section 3 Procedures after Listing 
    Sub-section 1 Submission of Documents, etc. (Rule 421 to Rule 422) 
    Sub-section 2 Shareholder Services, etc. (Rule 423 to Rule 431) 
Section 4 Code of Corporate Conduct 
    Sub-section 1 Matters to be Observed (Rule 432 to Rule 444) 
    Sub-section 2 Matters Desired to be Observed (Rule 445 to Rule 451) 
 Chapter 5 Ensuring Effectiveness 
  Section 1 Continued Listing Criteria (Rules 501 and 502) 
  Section 2 Securities on Special Alert (Rule 503) 
  Section 3 Improvement Report (Rule 504 to Rule 507) 
  Section 4 Public Announcement (Rule 508) 
  Section 5 Listing Agreement Violation Penalty (Rule 509) 
Section 6 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 510) 
 Chapter 6 Delisting 
  Section 1 Delisting Criteria (Rules 601 and 602) 
  Section 2 Procedures, etc. Pertaining to Delisting (Rule 603 to Rule 610) 
 Chapter 7 Miscellaneous Provisions 
  Section 1 Listing Fees, etc. (Rule 701) 
  Section 2 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 702 to Rule 715) 
Part 3 Preferred Stocks, etc.  
 Chapter 1 Preferred Stocks, etc. (Rule 801 to Rule 812) 
 Chapter 2 Senior Securities (Rule 813 to Rule 825) 
 Chapter 3 Preferred Equity Investment Securities (Rule 826 to Rule 840)  
 Chapter 4 Equity Contribution Securities (Rule 841) 
Chapter 5 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 842) 
Part 4 Bonds, etc. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
2
 Chapter 1 Bonds (Rule 901 to Rule 916) 
 Chapter 2 Convertible Bonds (Rule 917 to Rule 925) 
 Chapter 3 Exchangeable Corporate Bonds (Rule 926 to Rule 940) 
 Chapter 4 ETNs (Rule 941 to Rule 956) 
Chapter 5 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 957) 
Part 5 ETFs 
 Chapter 1 General Provisions (Rule 1001) 
 Chapter 2 ETFs (Rule 1101 to Rule 1119) 
Chapter 3 Miscellaneous Provisions (Rule 1120 to Rule 1122) 
Part 6 Funds 
 Chapter 1 General Provisions (Rule 1201) 
 Chapter 2 Real Estate Investment Trust Securities (Rule 1201-2 to Rule 1225) 
 Chapter 3 Venture Funds (Rule 1301 to Rule 1325) 
 Chapter 4 Country Funds (Rule 1401 to Rule 1421) 
Chapter 5 Infrastructure Funds (Rule 1501 to Rule 1528) 
Part 7 Securities Issued by Japan Exchange Group (Rule 1601 to Rule 1605) 
Supplementary Provisions 
Appendices (Appendices 1 and 2) 
 
Part 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 1.  Purpose 
1. These regulations shall, pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1-3, Paragraph 4 of the Business 
Regulations, provide for listing, listing supervision, and delisting of securities, and other 
necessary matters pertaining to listed securities. 
2. Any amendment to these regulations shall be made by a resolution of the Board of Directors 
of the Exchange; provided, however, that this shall not apply to cases where the substance 
of the amendment is of minor significance. 
 
Rule 2.  Definitions 
The meanings of the terms referred to in each of the following items in these regulations shall 
be as defined in each of such items: 
   (1) A company that voluntarily adopts IFRS means a company that prepares financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. in accordance with a designated 
international accounting standard as prescribed in Article 312 of the Regulation on 
Terminology, Forms and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Ministry of Finance Order No. 28 of 1976; hereinafter referred to as the "Consolidated 
Financial Statements Regulation") or Article 326, Paragraph 2 of the Regulation on 
Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Financial Statements (Ministry of 
Finance Order No. 59 of 1963; hereinafter referred to as the "Financial Statements 
Regulation") and submits such statements, etc. to the Prime Minister, etc. 
(1)-2 An ETN means, out of the securities referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (5) of 
the Act or the securities referred to in Item (17) of the same paragraph, the security  
which has the same attributes as bonds provided in Item (5) of the same paragraph, and 
whose redemption value tracks a specific indicator (meaning indicators such as 
quotations on a financial instruments market; the same shall apply hereinafter.); 
 (1)-3 An ETN trust beneficiary certificate means, of the securities trust beneficiary 
certificates prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order, that whose 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
3
entrusted security is an ETN; 
(1)-4 An investment trust managed based on instructions from the settlor means an 
investment trust managed based on instructions from the settlor prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(1)-5 An investment trust managed without instructions from the settlor means an 
investment trust managed without instructions from the settlor prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(1)-6 A unit means a trading unit prescribed in Rule 15 of the Business Regulations; 
(2) A parent company means a parent company prescribed in Article 8, Paragraph 3 of the 
Financial Statements Regulation;  
(3) A parent company, etc. means a parent company, other related companies (meaning other 
related companies prescribed in Article 8, Paragraph 8 of the Financial Statements 
Regulation; the same shall apply hereinafter) or their parent company; 
(4) A foreign country means a country or a region other than Japan; 
(5) A foreign company means an issuer of a foreign stock, etc.; 
(6) A foreign stock means, out of the securities referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item 
(17) of the Act, a security with a nature of a stock referred to in Item (1) of the same 
paragraph; 
(7) A foreign stock, etc. means a foreign stock or a foreign stock depositary receipt, etc.; 
(8) A beneficial shareholder of a foreign stock, etc. means a beneficial shareholder of a 
foreign stock, etc. prescribed in the rules concerning custody and book-entry transfer 
settlement of foreign stocks, etc. set forth by a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(9) The book-entry transfer operation for foreign stocks, etc. means business concerning 
custody and book-entry transfer of foreign stocks, foreign stock depositary receipts, 
senior securities (meaning senior securities prescribed in Rule 813, Paragraph 1), 
foreign ETFs, foreign spot commodity ETFs, and country funds for which a designated 
book-entry transfer institution receives approval as a concurrent business pursuant to 
the provisions of the proviso of Article 9, Paragraph 1 of the Book-Entry Transfer Act; 
(10) A foreign stock trust beneficiary certificate means, out of securities trust beneficiary 
certificates prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order, a security trust 
beneficiary certificate whose entrusted security (meaning an entrusted security 
prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order; the same shall apply 
hereinafter) is a foreign stock; 
(11) A foreign stock depositary receipt means a security representing rights pertaining to a 
foreign stock which is a security referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (20) of the 
Act; 
(12) A foreign stock depositary receipt, etc. means a foreign stock depositary receipt or a 
foreign stock trust beneficiary certificate; 
(13) A foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. means a foreign financial instruments 
exchange or a foreign organized over-the-counter market specified by the Enforcement 
Rules; 
(13)-2 A foreign investment security means a foreign investment security prescribed 
in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (11) of the Act; 
(13)-3 A foreign investment trust means a foreign investment trust prescribed by 
Article 2, Paragraph 24 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(13)-4 A foreign investment corporation means a foreign investment corporation 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 25 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(14) A foreign holding company means a foreign company whose primary business is to 
control business activities of another company by owning its shares; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
4
(15) A Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure means the Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure 
of Corporate Affairs, etc. (Cabinet Office Order No.5 of 1973); 
(16) A company means a company or a foreign company or cooperative structured financial 
institution prescribed in Article 2, Item (1) of the Companies Act (Act No. 86 of 2005); 
(17) A stock, etc. means a domestic stock or a foreign stock, etc.; 
(18) A shareholder services agent means a corporate institution which is not an issuer but 
generally undertakes shareholder services (including works pertaining to preferred 
equity investments; the same shall apply hereinafter) such as notification to shareholders, 
etc., in addition to transfer of shares, and also which is an administrator of shareholder 
registry prescribed in Article 123 of the Companies Act or an administrator of preferred 
equity investment registry prescribed by the Preferred Equity Investment Act; 
(18)-2 A shareholder, etc. record date means a record date pertaining to the status of major 
shareholders or of large contributors included in an annual securities report. 
(19) A related company means a related company prescribed in Article 8, Paragraph 8 of 
the Financial Statements Regulation; 
(20) Audit certification means audit certification prescribed in Article 193-2, Paragraph 1 
of the Act; 
(21) Audit certification, etc. means audit certification or certification corresponding to audit 
certification; 
(22) Certification corresponding to audit certification means certification deemed to 
correspond to audit certification prescribed in Article 1-2 of the Cabinet Office Order 
on Audit Certification; 
(23) A Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification means the Cabinet Office Order on Audit 
Certification of Financial Statements, etc. (the Order of the Ministry of Finance No.12 
of 1957); 
(24) A managing trading participant means a trading participant of the Exchange, out of 
managing financial instruments business operators; 
(25) An affiliated company means an affiliated company prescribed in Article 8, Paragraph 
5 of the Financial Statements Regulation; 
(26) A corporate group means a company, its subsidiaries and affiliated companies;    
(27) A business group means a business group prescribed in Article 4, Paragraph 1, Item (1) 
of the Consolidated Financial Statements Regulation; 
(27)-2 A share with voting rights means, out of domestic stocks, a class of shares whose 
voting rights are not restricted as to important issues including selection and dismissal 
of board members at general shareholders meetings; 
(28) A record date, etc. means a record date set pursuant to the provisions of the Companies 
Act or the Preferred Equity Investment Act and a record date in cases where the book-
entry transfer institution prescribed by Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Book-Entry Transfer 
Act notifies all beneficial shareholders pursuant to the provisions of Article 151, 
Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 8 of the same Act (including cases where they are applied 
mutatis mutandis in Article 235 of the same Act); 
(29) A cooperative structured financial institution means a cooperative structured financial 
institution prescribed in the Preferred Equity Investment Act; 
(30) A false statement means a false statement as to annual securities reports, etc. in the case 
where a company receives a revision order (meaning, as a general rule, a revision order 
pertaining to Article 10 of the Act (including cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis 
in Article 24-2 and Article 24-5 of the Act) or Article 23-10 of the Act) or a surcharge 
payment order (meaning an order pertaining to Article 172-2, Paragraph 1 of the Act 
(including cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis in Paragraph 4 of the same article) 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
5
or Article 172-4, Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2 of the Act) from the Prime Minister, etc., 
or where accusation pertaining to Article 197 or Article 207 of the Act is made by the 
Prime Minister, etc. or the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, or where 
a company submits a revision notice, registration statement of issuing revision or 
revision statement and, in addition, where the detail of such revisions is deemed 
important; 
(31) A financial instruments business operator means an entity who carries out class 1 
financial instruments business prescribed in Article 28, Paragraph 1 of the Act, out of 
the financial instruments business operators prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the 
Act; 
(32) An exchangeable corporate bond means a corporate bond (meaning a security as 
referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (5) of the Act or a bond with the characteristics 
of the security referred to in Item (5) of the same paragraph out of the securities referred 
to in Item (17) of the same paragraph; the same shall apply hereinafter), which shall be 
redeemed in the form of a domestic stock or foreign stock of a specified company other 
than the issuer upon the claim of the holder of the corporate bond; 
(33) A certified public accountant means a certified public accountant or a foreign certified 
public accountant prescribed in Article 16-2, Paragraph 5 of the Certified Public 
Accountant Act (Act No. 103 of 1948); 
(34) A certified public accountant, etc. means a certified public accountant, an audit firm or 
an entity corresponding to these; 
(35) A public offering means an issue or disposal of a stock, etc. or depositary receipt 
(meaning the security referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (20) of the Act) 
representing the rights pertaining to the stock, etc. by a general offering; 
(36) A subsidiary means a subsidiary company prescribed by Article 8, Paragraph 3 of the 
Financial Statements Regulation; 
(37) A subsidiary-linked dividend stock means an equity share of a class whose substance 
is that the issuer pays surplus dividend to shareholders in accordance with the business 
performance, dividend, etc. of its consolidated subsidiary (meaning a consolidated 
subsidiary prescribed by Article 2, Paragraph 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Regulation; the same shall apply hereinafter); 
(37)-2 Internationally Active Shinkin Banks means Internationally Active Shinkin Banks 
prescribed in Article 1, Item (9)-3 of "Criteria for Judging Whether Capital of a Shinkin 
Bank and the Federation of Shinkin Banks Is Sufficient in Light of the Assets Held, etc. 
(Financial Services Agency Notification No. 21 of 2006) under the provision of Article 
14-2 of the Banking Act which is applied mutatis mutandis in Article 89, Paragraph 1 of 
the Shinkin Bank Act; 
(37)-3 An Internationally Active Banks, etc. means Internationally Active Banks, the 
Norinchukin Bank, Internationally Active Shinkin Banks, and the Shoko Chukin, Ltd. 
prescribed in Article 1, Item (10)-2 of "Criteria for Judging Whether Capital of a Bank 
Is Sufficient in Light of the Assets Held, etc. (The Financial Services Agency 
Notification No. 19 of 2006) under the provision of Article 14-2 of the Banking Act." 
(38) A bond means a bond excluding a corporate bond with subscription warrants (meaning 
a bond attached with subscription warrants; the same shall apply hereinafter), an 
exchangeable corporate bond or an ETN; 
(38)-2 Financial covenants means financial covenants as prescribed in Article 19, Paragraph 
2, Item (12)-4 of the Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure; 
(39) Financial statements, etc. means financial statements (meaning balance sheets, income 
statements, statements of changes in net assets, cash flow statements, and ancillary 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
6
statements), and consolidated financial statements (meaning consolidated balance 
sheets, consolidated income statements and consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income or consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, consolidated 
statements of changes in net assets, consolidated cash flow statements, and consolidated 
ancillary statements) or financial documents; 
(40) A financial document means documents concerning financial calculation of a foreign 
company; 
(41) A treasury share means a stock, etc. held by the issuer of such stock, etc.; 
(41)-2 An asset management company means an asset management company prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 21 of the Investment Trust Act (including entities which have been 
entrusted by such asset management company with all or some rights pertaining to the 
management of assets entrusted by the investment corporation); 
(42) A designated book-entry transfer institution means a book-entry transfer institution 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Book-Entry Transfer Act, which is an entity 
specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(42)-2 A controlling shareholder means a parent company or an entity specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as entity which directly or indirectly hold a majority of the voting 
rights; 
(43) A quarterly accounting period means each three-month period within a business year 
(excluding the last of these periods) when the business year exceeds three months; 
(43)-2 A cumulative quarterly accounting period means the period from the first day of a 
business year to the last day of a quarterly accounting period; 
(43)-3 A quarterly consolidated accounting period means each three-month period within a 
consolidated accounting year (excluding the last of these periods) when the consolidated 
accounting year exceeds three months; 
(43)-4 A cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period means the period from the 
first day of a consolidated accounting year to the last day of a quarterly consolidated 
accounting period; 
(43)-5 A beneficiary certificate means a beneficiary certificate prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 7 of the Investment Trust Act, Article 185, Paragraph 1 of the Trust Act, and 
Article 2, Item (15) of the Asset Securitization Act; 
(43)-6 An equity contribution security means a security referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 
1, Item (6) of the Act; 
(43)-7 A listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate means an ETN trust beneficiary certificate 
listed on the Exchange; 
(44) A listed foreign company means an issuer of a listed foreign stock, etc.; 
(45) A listed foreign stock means a foreign stock listed on the Exchange; 
(46) A listed foreign stock, etc. means a listed foreign stock or a listed foreign stock 
depositary receipt, etc.; 
(47) A listed foreign stock trust beneficiary certificate means a foreign stock trust 
beneficiary certificate listed on the Exchange; 
(48) A listed foreign stock depositary receipt means a foreign stock depositary receipt listed 
on the Exchange; 
(49) A listed foreign stock depositary receipt, etc. means a listed foreign stock depositary 
receipt or a listed foreign stock trust beneficiary certificate; 
(50) A listed company means an issuer of a listed stock, etc.; 
(51) A listed stock, etc. means a stock, etc. listed on the Exchange;  
(51)-2 A listed share with voting rights means a share with voting rights which is listed on 
the Exchange; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
7
(52) A listed exchangeable corporate bond means an exchangeable corporate bond listed on 
the Exchange; 
(53) A listed bond means a bond listed on the Exchange; 
(54) Deleted. 
(55) A listed convertible bond means a convertible bond listed on the Exchange; 
(56) A listed domestic company means an issuer of a listed domestic stock; 
(57) A domestic stock means a domestic stock listed on the Exchange; 
(58) A listed share without voting rights means a share without voting rights which is listed 
on the Exchange; 
(59) A listed security means a security listed on the Exchange; 
(60) A listed preferred stock, etc. means a preferred stock, etc. listed on the Exchange; 
(61) A listed preferred equity investment security means a preferred equity investment 
security listed on the Exchange; 
(62) A subscription warrant security means a security with the characteristics of a 
subscription warrant security referred to in Item (9) in the same paragraph out of 
securities referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (9) of the Act or the securities 
referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (17) of the same act; 
(63) Initial listing means a listing of a security of the class or the number which is not listed 
on the Exchange; 
(64) An initial listing applicant means an issuer where the issuer whose stock, etc. is not 
listed on the Exchange applies for initial listing of its stock, etc.; 
(64)-2 The Trust Act means the Trust Act (Act No. 108 of 2006); 
(65) Spin-off type company split means a company split in which all or part of the shares 
of a succeeding company or a newly created company will be delivered to the 
shareholders of the company effecting the company split at the time of such a company 
split; 
(66) Distribution with a quantitative limit means an off-auction distribution or a distribution 
corresponding to this in accordance with the rules and regulations of any other financial 
instruments exchange in Japan in which a limit to the purchase application quantity is 
set up at less than fifty (50) units; 
(67) The Enforcement Order means the Enforcement Order of the Financial Instruments 
and Exchange Act (Cabinet Order No.321 of 1965); 
(67)-2 Third-party allotment means a third-party allotment as prescribed in Article 19, 
Paragraph 2, Item (1), Sub-item (l) of the Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure. 
(68) Off-auction distribution means an off-auction distribution prescribed in Rule 42 of the 
Business Regulations; 
(69) The number of shares constituting one unit means the Share Unit prescribed by Article 
2, Item (20) of the Companies Act; 
(70) Interim financial statements, etc. means interim financial statements (meaning interim 
balance sheets, interim income statements, and interim cash flow statements (or, for a 
company that is set forth in the left column of Item 2 or Item 3 of the table in Article 
24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act, interim balance sheets, interim income statements, interim 
statement of changes in net assets, and interim cash flow statements)) and interim 
consolidated financial statements (meaning interim consolidated balance sheets, interim 
consolidated income statements and interim consolidated statements of comprehensive 
income or interim consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, and 
interim consolidated cash flow statements (or, for a company that is set forth in the left 
column of Item 2 or Item 3 of the same table, interim consolidated balance sheets, 
interim consolidated income statements and interim consolidated statements of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
8
comprehensive income or interim consolidated statements of income and 
comprehensive income, interim consolidated statement of changes in net assets and 
interim consolidated cash flow statements)) or financial documents for an interim 
accounting period; 
(71) Multiple listing means listing or continuous trading on foreign financial instruments 
exchange(s), etc., or what is specified by the Enforcement Rules as equivalent to this; 
(72) The end of the most recent business year, etc. means the end of an immediately prior 
business year or a day where six months have lapsed counting from the commencement 
day of such a business year, or a day specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(73) Provisions for technical listing mean the provisions of Rule 208, Rule 214, or Rule 
220; 
(74) Conversion means that, in cases of a share, a company delivers another class of shares 
or subscription warrants in exchange for acquiring shares issued by the company, and 
in cases of subscription warrants, the company delivers shares or subscription warrants 
in exchange for acquiring subscription warrants issued by the company; 
(75) A convertible bond means that the purpose of the contribution at the time of the 
execution of the subscription warrants is a corporate bond pertaining to such corporate 
bond with subscription warrants, out of the corporate bonds with subscription warrants; 
(75)-2 Investment Management Business means the investment management business 
prescribed in Article 28, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
(75)-3 An investment security means an investment security prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 15 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(75)-4 Deleted. 
(75)-5 An investment trust means an investment trust prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 3 
of the Investment Trust Act; 
(75)-6 An investment trust management company means an investment trust management 
company prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 11 of the Investment Trust Act (including 
entities which have been entrusted by such investment trust management company with 
the authority, in whole or in part, to give instructions for investment of the investment 
trust assets of an investment trust managed based on instructions from the settlor); 
(75)-7 The Investment Trust Act means the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment 
Corporations (Act No. 198 of 1951). 
(75)-8 The Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation means the Regulation for 
Enforcement of the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations (Prime 
Minister's Office Order No. 129 of November 17, 2000); 
(75)-9 The Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order means the Order for Enforcement of 
the Act on Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations (Cabinet Order No. 480 of 
2000); 
(75)-10 An investment corporation means an investment corporation prescribed in Article 
2, Paragraph 12 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(75)-11 The Investment Corporation Accounting Order means the Order on Accountings of 
Investment Corporations (Cabinet Office Order No. 47 of 2006); 
(75)-12 An investment corporation bond certificate means an investment corporation bond 
certificate prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Investment Trust Act. 
(75)-13 A registered auditor of listed companies means a registered auditor of listed 
companies as defined in Article 34-34-8, Paragraph 1 of the Certified Public 
Accountants Act; 
(75)-14 The Regulated Securities Disclosure Order means the Cabinet Office Order on 
Disclosure of Information, etc. of Regulated Securities (Order of the Ministry of Finance 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
9
No. 22 of 1993); 
(76) The Prime Minister, etc. means the Prime Minister or an entity (including foreign 
administrative agencies corresponding to these in cases of a foreign company or any 
other foreign entity) entrusted with authority belonging to the Prime Minister pursuant 
to the provisions of laws and regulations; 
(77) A domestic company means an issuer of a domestic stock; 
(78) A domestic stock means a domestic stock (excluding preferred stocks, etc.) referred to 
in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (9) of the Act; 
(79) Insider trading means trading prohibited by Article 166 and Article 167 of the Act; 
(79)-2 Insider trading, etc. means insider trading and acts prohibited under the provisions 
of Article 167-2 of the Act; 
(79)-3 An internal control report means an internal control report prescribed in Article 24-
4-4, Paragraph 1 of the Act (including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the Act) 
(in cases of a foreign entity that submits a document as a substitute for such internal 
control report pursuant to the provisions of Article 24, Paragraph 8 of the Act that is 
applied mutatis mutandis with rewording in Paragraph 6 of the same article (including 
cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the Act), such document); 
(80) Takeover response policies mean policies stipulated by a listed company by which it resists 
attempts at acquisition (meaning, mainly, an act where a buyer obtains a controlling interest in 
a listed company by acquiring its shares; the same shall apply hereinafter) through carrying out 
gratis allotment of subscription warrants with discriminatory exercise conditions or acquisition 
clauses (or other things) without a primary business purpose such as raising funds; 
(80)-2 Countermeasures against acquisitions mean specific actions such as gratis allotment 
of subscription warrants which are stipulated in takeover response policies. 
(81) An issuer is an issuer prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 5 of the Act; 
(81)-2 A semiannual securities report means a semiannual securities report prescribed in 
Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act (including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in 
the Act) (in cases of a foreign entity that submits a document as a substitute for such 
semiannual securities report pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 7 of the same article 
(including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the Act), such document); 
(81)-3 A non-participating preferred stock means, out of a class of shares which have 
precedence on surplus dividends, a stock whose shareholder is unable to receive 
dividend from the residual distributable amount after receiving payment of preferred 
dividend; 
(82) The Book-Entry Transfer Act means the Act Concerning Book-Entry Transfer of 
Corporate Bonds, Stocks, Etc. (Act No. 75 of 2001); 
(83) The Act means the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (Act No. 25 of 1948); 
(84) An offered share means an offered share prescribed in Article 199, Paragraph 1 of the 
Companies Act and an offered preferred equity investment prescribed by the Preferred 
Equity Investment Act, and shares allotted pursuant to the provisions of foreign laws 
and regulations corresponding to these; 
(84)-2 Offered share, etc. means offered shares, offered subscription warrants (including 
own subscription warrants to be disposed) as prescribed in Article 238, Paragraph 1 of 
the Companies Act, or subscription warrants allotted pursuant to provisions of 
corresponding laws and regulations of any foreign country; 
(85) A home country means a home country or region specified by the Enforcement Rules 
as a country or a region to which a foreign company or any other foreign entity belongs; 
(86) A home country, etc. means a home country and a country or region where a foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc. is located, and a security issued by a foreign 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
10 
company or any other foreign entity is listed or is continuously traded on said exchange; 
(87) A share without voting rights means, out of domestic stocks, a share whose rights to 
vote on important issues including selection and dismissal of board members at general 
shareholders meetings are restricted; 
(88) A security means a security as prescribed by Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the Act; 
(88)-2 A securities registration statement means a registration statement prescribed in 
Article 5, Paragraph 1 of the Act (including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the 
Act) (in cases of a foreign entity that submits a document as a substitute for such 
registration statement pursuant to the provision of Paragraph 6 of the same article 
(including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the Act), such document and 
supplementary documents), and documents attached thereto as well as amendment 
statements thereof. 
(88)-3 An annual securities report means an annual securities report prescribed in Article 
24, Paragraph 1 (including cases of applying mutatis mutandis in the Act) (in cases of a 
foreign entity that submits a document as a substitute for such annual securities report 
pursuant to Paragraph 8 of the same article (including cases of applying mutatis 
mutandis in the Act), such document); 
(89) An annual securities report, etc. means securities notification, securities registration 
statement, securities registration supplementary documents and attached documents to 
these documents, reference documents pertaining to these documents, annual securities 
reports and their attached documents, semiannual securities reports, and prospectuses;  
(90) A preferred stock, etc. means a non-participating preferred stock and subsidiary-linked 
dividend stock; 
(91) Preferred equity investment means preferred equity investment as prescribed by the 
Preferred Equity Investment Act; 
(92) A preferred equity investment security means a preferred equity investment security as 
prescribed by the Preferred Equity Investment Act; 
(93) The Preferred Equity Investment Act means the Act on Preferred Equity Investment by 
Cooperative Structured Financial Institution (Act No. 44 of 1992); 
(94) A depository, etc. means, in cases of a foreign stock depositary receipt, a depository 
pertaining to such foreign stock depositary receipt, in cases of a foreign stock trust 
beneficiary certificate, a trustee (meaning a trustee as prescribed by Article 2, Paragraph 
5 of the Trust Act) pertaining to such foreign stock trust beneficiary certificate, and in 
cases of a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate (meaning a foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificate as prescribed by Rule 1001, Item (3); the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this rule) and a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate 
(meaning a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate prescribed in Rule 
1001, Item (5); the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule), a trustee pertaining to such 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate or such foreign spot commodity ETF trust 
beneficiary certificate, and in cases of a foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary 
certificate (meaning a trust beneficiary certificate prescribed in Rule 1201, Item (2)-4; 
the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule), a trustee pertaining to such foreign 
infrastructure trust beneficiary certificate; 
(95) A deposit agreement, etc. means, in cases of a foreign stock depositary receipt, a deposit 
agreement pertaining to such foreign stock depositary receipt, in cases of a foreign stock 
trust beneficiary certificate, a trust agreement pertaining to such foreign stock trust 
beneficiary certificate, in cases of a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate and a 
foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a trust agreement pertaining 
to such foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate and such foreign spot commodity ETF 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
11
trust beneficiary certificate, and in cases of a foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary 
certificate, a trust agreement pertaining to such foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificate, and; 
(96) Tradable shares mean shares excluding shares as prescribed by the Enforcement Rules 
as securities held by entities who individually hold 10% or more of the total number of 
such security, out of the securities pertaining to an initial listing application for or listed 
securities or any other securities, the circulation of which is poor.   
 
Rule 3.  Entrustment of Self-Regulatory Operations 
1. Out of the self-regulatory operations referred to in Article 84, Paragraph 2 of the Act, the 
Exchange may entrust operations referred to in each of the following items to Japan 
Exchange Regulation (hereinafter referred to as "JPX-R"): 
(1) Operation concerning listing and delisting of securities; and 
(2) Operation concerning examination of disclosure of information pertaining to an issuer 
of a listed security carried out by such issuer, and measures such as regulatory actions 
against an issuer of a listed security.  
2. An issuer of a security pertaining to an initial listing application and an issuer of a listed 
security must comply with the examination, survey and report or claims for materials, etc. 
that JPX-R carries out as the operation entrusted to JPX-R by the Exchange pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
3. The Exchange shall give approval or take measures such as regulatory actions on the basis 
of the results of the examination or survey, etc. carried out by JPX-R as the operation 
entrusted to JPX-R pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 4.  Notification of Trading Halt and Removal of Halt 
When the Exchange halts trading in a listed security or removes a trading halt, it shall notify 
the issuer of such listed security of this fact. 
 
Rule 5.  Submission, etc. of Documents in Japanese or English 
1. Documents, etc. to be submitted to the Exchange by an issuer of a security pertaining to an 
initial listing application, an issuer of a listed security or any other entity who makes 
submission and disclosure, etc. of documents, etc. on the basis of the rules of the Exchange 
(hereinafter referred to as an "issuer, etc. of a listed security") shall be in accordance with 
each of the following items: 
(1) Documents, etc. that an issuer, etc. of a listed security submits to the Exchange shall be, 
as a general rule, prepared in the Japanese language; 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding item, where the issuer, etc. of a listed 
security is a foreign country or a foreign corporation, they may be prepared in the English 
language pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, except documents, etc. as 
specified by the Enforcement Rules; and 
(3) Where documents, etc. that an issuer, etc. of a listed security submits are not written in 
the Japanese or English language, a copy of their translation shall be, as a general rule, 
attached pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. Regarding matters on monetary amounts, out of the descriptions stated in the documents to 
be submitted to the Exchange as prescribed in the preceding paragraph, monetary amounts 
shall be shown in the currency of the issuer’s country and the Japanese currency (which 
shall be translated at a foreign exchange market rate as specified by the Enforcement Rules).  
 
Rule 6.  Submission of Documents, etc. Recorded by Electromagnetic Means 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
12 
1. Documents, etc. that an issuer, etc. of a listed security should carry out pursuant to the rules 
and regulations of the Exchange can be submitted by electromagnetic records stating the 
substance of such documents, etc.; provided, however, that this shall not apply to documents, 
etc. that the Exchange deems necessary to be submitted in writing. 
2. In application of rules and regulations of the Exchange where an electromagnetic record 
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph is submitted, such submission shall 
be deemed to be submission of documents, etc. in the same paragraph by written documents, 
and, in addition, in application of rules and regulations of the Exchange, an electromagnetic 
record and matters recorded in such an electromagnetic record shall be deemed to be a 
document corresponding to such electromagnetic record and matters stated in such 
document, respectively. 
 
Rule 7.  Consideration of Legal System, etc. of Home Country, etc. 
In application of the rules and regulations of the Exchange to a foreign country or a foreign 
corporation where the foreign country or the foreign corporation is an issuer, etc. of a listed 
security, the Exchange shall take into account legal systems, practices and customs, etc. in such 
foreign country or the country, etc. of the foreign corporation. 
 
Rule 8.  Entrustment to the Enforcement Rules 
The Exchange may prescribe necessary details concerning listing of a security, timely 
disclosure by an issuer of a listed security, delisting and any other matters concerning a listed 
security in the Enforcement Rules, in addition to matters prescribed in these regulations. 
 
 
Part 2 
Stocks, etc. 
 
Chapter 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 101.  Market Segments  
The Exchange has established the market segments referred to in the following each item in the 
market of the Exchange pertaining to stocks, etc. and preferred stocks, etc.  
(1) Standard Market 
(2) Prime Market 
(3) Growth Market 
 
 
Chapter 2 
Initial Listing 
 
Section 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 201.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a stock, etc. shall be conducted by application of an issuer of such stock, etc. 
Details of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application in this case shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. A stock, etc. issued by a company that will be established through a consolidation-type 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
13 
merger, share transfer, or incorporation-type company split conducted by a listed company 
(limited to that specified by the Enforcement Rules)  may be applied for an initial listing 
even prior to the company's establishment (limited to after the resolution at a general 
shareholders meeting of such listed company pertaining to such consolidation-type merger, 
share transfer, or incorporation-type company split), and listing of the stock, etc. on the basis 
of such initial listing application prior to its establishment shall be made by an application of 
such a listed company. In this case, matters necessary for procedures regarding the listing 
application and application of other provisions shall be as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
3. In cases where a stock, etc. is not initially listed within a year counting from the date when 
the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, said initial 
listing application shall become invalid. 
4. The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs shall not apply to domestic stocks to be 
listed in accordance with the listing order in Article 125 of the Act. 
5. In cases where an initial listing applicant makes application for its share with voting rights 
and its share without voting rights simultaneously, it shall make an application for such share 
without voting rights to the same market segment as such a share with voting rights. 
6. Examination of a stock, etc. for which application is made for initial listing shall be made 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 205 through 209, Rules 211 through 215, or Rules 217 
through 221. 
7. Provisions of Rules 202 through 222 shall not apply to a stock, etc. whose issuer is a listed 
company. 
 
Rule 202.  Preliminary Application 
1. An entity that intends to make an initial listing application of a stock, etc. (excluding an entity 
subject to the provisions for technical listing) may make a preliminary application for initial 
listing application (hereinafter referred to as the "preliminary application") by submitting an 
"Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application" that contains such matters as the day for 
intending to make an initial listing application and other matters, and documents prepared in 
a manner equivalent to documents necessary for initial listing application (it shall suffice to 
prepare those that can be submitted).  
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial listing 
application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs" shall be "the date when the 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following 
rule", and "said initial listing application" shall be "said preliminary application and any 
initial listing application which has been made within a year counting from the date of said 
preliminary application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange shall make examination as to whether it has the likelihood of meeting the 
provisions of Rules 205 through 207, Rules 211 through 213, or Rules 217through 219. 
4. The provisions of Rule 204, Paragraph 9, Rule 210, Paragraph 9, and Rule 216, Paragraph 9 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the examination defined in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 203.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application, the issuer of 
the stock, etc. pertaining to such initial listing application shall submit a "Listing Agreement" 
prescribed by the Exchange and specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
14 
2. The Listing Agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall take effect on the listing 
date of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall make an entry of the description and other matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules in the listed securities ledger on the date of listing the stock, etc. 
pertaining to the initial listing application. 
4. Where a stock, etc. that is issued is to be delisted due to falling under the provisions of Rule 
601, Paragraph 1, Item (16) (including where it falls under the provisions of Rule 602, 
Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3)) and, in addition, where a stock, etc. that will 
be issued in exchange for such stocks, etc. will be listed pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
303, the issuer shall be deemed to be the issuer of listed stocks, etc. at or after the delisting 
until the stock, etc. to be issued in exchange. 
 
Section 2 
Initial Listing on Standard Market 
 
Rule 204.  Documents to be Submitted, etc. Pertaining to Initial Listing Application 
1. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market 
shall, when it makes an initial listing application, submit a "Security Initial Listing 
Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange which contains the trade name or 
corporate name of such an applicant, the name, class, and number of shares to be issued of 
the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, and other matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as the details of the initial listing applicant and a "Written Oath 
Concerning Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the Exchange as specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
2. An initial listing applicant shall attach the articles of incorporation, "Annual Securities Report 
for Initial Listing Application" containing matters concerning the business group to which 
the initial listing applicant belongs and the status of its accounts, other important matters, 
etc. concerning the details of the business, and other documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" prescribed in the 
preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for those specified in 
the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by 
the Exchange on a case-by-case basis.. 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant that 
makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market pursuant to the provisions for 
technical listing shall attach the articles of incorporation and other documents specified by 
the Enforcement Rules to the Security Initial Listing Application Form prescribed by 
Paragraph 1. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment of the issuer pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2, for any documents the issuer was not able to submit 
at the time of the initial listing application (limited to those in cases where it was deemed 
inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis) out of the attached documents specified 
by the preceding paragraph, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them if submission of 
said documents becomes possible. 
5. Where an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard 
Market (excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application pursuant 
to the provisions for technical listing) makes notification concerning offering of a security 
or notification concerning the secondary distribution of a security or submission of a notice 
to the Prime Minister, etc. during the period from the first day of the business year containing 
the initial listing application date to the date on which listing is to be made, or where it falls 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
15 
under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall submit documents  
specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
6. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market 
shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, undergo an audit, interim audit, or interim 
review (excluding an interim audit or interim review in case of an initial listing applicant 
that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the provisions for technical listing; the 
same shall apply hereinafter) by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm, 
and based on such audit or review, attach an audit report, interim audit report or interim 
review report (excluding an interim audit report or interim review report in case of an initial 
listing applicant that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the provisions for 
technical listing; the same shall apply hereinafter) prepared by such certified public 
accountants or audit firm in conformity with the provisions of Article 193-2 of the Act to 
documents concerning financial calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the 
documents to be submitted pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 2 through the preceding 
paragraph, submitting them to the Exchange by the time when the Exchange approves listing 
of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application; provided, however, that the same 
shall not apply to cases where the initial listing applicant is a foreign company specified by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
7. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market 
(excluding a foreign company to which the provisions of the proviso in the preceding 
paragraph applies, and an initial listing applicants that make an initial listing application 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified in the Enforcement Rules, 
submit a copy of a summary audit report, a summary interim audit report or a summary 
interim review report prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm with respect 
to the audit, the interim audit or the interim review prescribed in the same paragraph 
(excluding those specified by the Enforcement Rules) by the time when the Exchange 
approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application. 
8. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market 
(excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the 
provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, attach an audit 
report or a document containing an opinion about financial numerical values, etc. prepared 
by certified public accountants or an audit firm to the documents concerning financial 
calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, and submit them to the Exchange by the 
time when the Exchange approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing 
application, in addition to the provisions of Paragraph 6. 
9. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
applicant to submit an informational report or materials in addition to the documents 
prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing 
examination. 
10. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard shall, if 
the Exchange approves the listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, 
submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules out of documents referred to in 
Paragraphs 2 through 8, and shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents and the 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public inspection before and 
after the listing, out of the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to 
the provisions of this rule. 
11. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Standard Market 
shall, if the Exchange approves listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing 
application, submit documents describing to the effect that the representative of such initial 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
16 
listing applicant is aware that the "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" 
prescribed by Paragraph 2 and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules do not 
contain any untrue statements and the reason as specified by the Enforcement Rules, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing. 
12. In the cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant referred to in 
each of the following items shall submit documents specified in each of such items, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing: 
(1) An initial listing applicant who makes an initial listing application of a domestic stock and 
a foreign stock, etc. for which the Exchange is a main market: 
The report containing matters concerning corporate governance as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; and 
(2) An initial listing applicant whose structure of the corporate group is deemed to be peculiar 
by the Exchange: 
The report containing risk information pertaining to the structure of the corporate 
group. 
 
Rule 205.  Initial Requirements for Domestic Companies 
Listing examination for the Standard Market specified by Rule 207 pertaining to a domestic 
stock shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items. In this case, details of 
each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Number of shareholders: 
The number of shareholders (meaning the number of holders owing one (1) unit or more 
of the stock, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter) shall be expected to reach 400 or more 
by the time of listing; 
(2) Tradable shares: 
The following a. through c. shall be satisfied; provided, however, that in cases where a 
domestic stock falls under Item (10), b. or c., the following a. and b. shall be satisfied: 
a. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by the 
time of listing; 
b. The market capitalization of the tradable shares as of the listing date shall be expected 
to reach JPY 1 billion or more; and 
c. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 25% or higher of the number 
of listed stocks, etc. by the time of listing; 
(3) Number of consecutive years of conducting business: 
It shall be required for an applicant to have conducted business activities as a stock 
company for more than three years calculated from the initial listing application date; 
(4) Amount of net assets: 
The amount of net assets on the listing date shall be expected to be positive; 
(5) Profits: 
     The profits in the last one (1) year ("last" years are counted from the end of the most 
recent business year before the initial listing application date; the same shall apply in this 
section) shall be JPY 100 million or more; 
(6) False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
The following a. through d. shall be satisfied: 
     a. No false statement shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. containing or 
making reference to financial statements, etc. for each business year or each 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last two years or interim financial 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
17 
statements, etc. for the interim accounting period in each business year or for the 
interim consolidated accounting period in each consolidated accounting year; 
     b. The audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each business year or each 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last two years (excluding an audit 
report attached to financial statements, etc. for a business year and a consolidated 
accounting year which ended in the last year) shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or 
a "qualified opinion with exceptions" of certified public accountants, etc.; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules  
specify otherwise;  
     c. The audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for the business year and 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last year and the interim audit report 
or interim review report attached to interim financial statements, etc. for the interim 
accounting period in the business year and the interim consolidated accounting period 
in the consolidated accounting year which ended in the last year shall contain an 
"unqualified opinion", "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. provide 
useful information" or an "unqualified conclusion" of certified public accountants, etc.; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise; and 
  d. Where a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any other 
financial instruments exchange in Japan, such stock, etc. shall not fall under the 
following (a) nor (b): 
(a) The internal control report pertaining to the business year ending in the last year 
contains the fact that "appraisal results cannot be provided"; and 
(b) The internal control audit report regarding the internal control report pertaining to 
a business year ending in the last year contains the fact of "disclaimer of opinion ". 
(7) Audit by a registered listed company auditor: 
It shall be required that an applicant has undergone an audit, interim audit or interim 
review equivalent to that in the provisions of Article 193-2 of the Act by a registered listed 
company auditor (limited to those which have undergone quality control reviews by The 
Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants) (excluding those deemed 
inappropriate by the Exchange) for its financial statements, etc. for each business year or 
consolidated accounting year ending in the last two years as well as the interim financial 
statements, etc. for the interim accounting period in the business year or for the interim 
consolidated accounting period in the consolidated accounting year ending in the last year. 
(8) Establishment of a shareholder services agent: 
It shall be required that shareholder services have been entrusted to an institution 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as the applicant’s shareholder services agent 
(hereinafter referred to as a "shareholder services agent approved by the Exchange"), or 
an informal consent of undertaking the entrustment of such shareholder services from the 
shareholder services agent has been received; provided, however, that the same shall not 
apply to a shareholder services agent approved by the Exchange; 
(9) Number of shares constituting one unit: 
The number of shares constituting one unit shall be expected to be 100 shares at the time 
of listing; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the 
Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
  (10) Classes of stock, etc.: 
A domestic stock pertaining to the initial listing application, shall be, as a general rule, 
any of stocks, etc. referred to in the following a. through c. In this case, the initial listing 
applicant for the stock, etc. referred to in b. shall not have securities other than said stock, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
18 
etc. as to which the applicant makes initial listing application 
a. In the case of a company issuing one class of shares with voting rights, said shares 
with voting rights; 
b. In the case of a company issuing multiple classes of shares with voting rights, a class 
of shares with voting rights whose value of rights, etc. to receive economic benefits 
including claim for surplus dividend pertaining to the number of shares that enables 
exercise of one (1) voting right at a general shareholders meeting with regard to 
important matters including selection and dismissal of board members is higher than 
any other class of stock; or 
c. Shares without voting rights 
(11) Restriction on transfer of shares: 
It shall be required that transfer of shares pertaining to an initial listing application is not 
restricted or it is expected that there will be no restriction by the time of listing; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where transfer of shares is restricted 
pursuant to the provisions of special laws specified by the Enforcement Rules at the same 
time the details of the restriction are deemed not to hinder trading in the market of the 
Exchange; 
(12) Handling by the designated book-entry transfer institution: 
It shall be required that the relevant issue is subject to the book-entry transfer operation 
of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or is expected to become so by the time 
of listing; and 
(13) Expected implementation of merger, etc.: 
The merger, etc. shall not fall under the following a. and b.: 
a. Where a merger (excluding a merger between an initial listing applicant and its 
subsidiary or a merger between subsidiaries of an initial listing applicant, and a merger 
falling under Rule 208, Item (1) or Item (2)), company split (excluding a company split 
between an initial listing applicant and its subsidiary or a company split between 
subsidiaries of an initial listing applicant), making other company a subsidiary or 
making a subsidiary a non-subsidiary or transfer of a business to or from other entity 
(excluding transfer of a business between an initial listing applicant and its subsidiary 
or between subsidiaries of an initial listing applicant) is scheduled to be carried out on 
or after the initial listing application day and within two years from the end of the  
base business year (including where a subsidiary of an initial listing applicant has 
carried out or plans to carry out a merger, company split and transfer of a business to 
or from other entity) and, in addition, where the Exchange deems that an initial listing 
applicant will cease to be a substantial surviving company by such an act; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules 
specify otherwise; and 
b. Where a merger in which an initial listing applicant becomes a dissolved company, a 
share exchange or a share transfer whereby it becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
another company is expected to be carried out within two years from the base business 
year (except cases where such acts are scheduled to be carried out on or before the 
listing date). 
 
Rule 206.  Initial Requirements for Foreign Companies 
1. Listing examination for the Standard Market specified in the following rule pertaining 
to a foreign stock, etc. shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items. 
In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Items (1), Item (2), (a) and (b), Items (3) through (6) and Item (13) of the preceding 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
19 
rule shall be satisfied; 
(2) Handling by designated book-entry transfer institution: 
It shall be required that the relevant issue is subject to the custody and book-entry 
transfer operation for foreign stocks, etc. or the book-entry transfer operation of the 
designated book-entry transfer institution, or is expected to become so by the time of 
listing; 
(3) Restriction on transfer of stocks, etc.: 
It shall be required that there is no restriction on transfer of a foreign stock, etc. 
pertaining to an initial listing application, or it is expected that there will be no 
restriction by the time of listing; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where imposing a restriction on transfer of a foreign stock, etc. is deemed 
necessary to receive application of provisions of laws in its home country or a case 
equivalent to this and, in addition, where its details are deemed not to hinder trading 
in the Exchange market; and 
(4) Deposit agreement, etc.: 
Where an initial listing applicant is an applicant for initial listing of a foreign stock 
depositary receipt, etc., the deposit agreement, etc. concerning a foreign stock 
depositary receipt, etc. and any other agreement pertaining to an initial listing 
application shall be those entered into pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules. 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, where an initial listing 
applicant is a privatized foreign company (meaning a foreign company operated by the 
government in its home country as a result of transfer of assets, rights and duties from an 
entity who has invested in all the amounts of the capital, or a foreign company where the 
majority of the total number of outstanding shares (including treasury shares) has been held 
by the government of its home country and, in addition, where, as a result of sale of all or 
part of the equities held by the government, such equities come to be owned by the private 
sector, or a foreign company which the Exchange deems to be of such a kind; the same 
shall apply hereinafter), the listing examination as prescribed in the following rule 
pertaining to a foreign stock, etc., shall be conducted on a company satisfying each of the 
following items even if the company does not satisfy Item (3), (5) nor (6) of the preceding 
rue as applied in Item (1) of the preceding paragraph. In this case, details of each such item 
shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Number of consecutive years of conducting business: 
      It shall be required that the business operated by a privatized foreign company has been 
in continuous operation for more than three years ago calculated from the initial listing 
application date; 
(2) Profits: 
       The profits in the last one (1) year (where the Enforcement Rules specify, the period 
for up to one (1) year as specified by the Exchange) shall be JPY 100 million or more;  
    (3) False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
       The following a. through d. shall be satisfied: 
      a. False statement shall not be made in annual securities reports, etc.  containing or 
making reference to financial documents for each business year which ended in the 
last two years (where the Enforcement Rules specify, the period for up to two years 
as specified by the Exchange; the same shall apply to the following b.); 
      b. Audit reports attached to financial documents for each business year ended in the last 
two years (excluding those attached to financial statements, etc. for the business year 
and the consolidated accounting year which ended in the last year) shall contain an 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
20 
"unqualified opinion" or a "qualified opinion with exceptions"; provided, however, 
that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify 
otherwise; 
      c. Audit reports attached to financial documents for the business year ended in the last 
year shall contain an "unqualified opinion" of certified public accountants, etc.; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply the cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise; and 
      d. Where a foreign stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any 
other financial instruments exchange in Japan, such stock, etc. shall not fall under the 
following (a) nor (b): 
(a) The internal control report pertaining to the business year ending in the last year 
contains the fact that "appraisal results cannot be provided"; and 
(b) The internal control audit report regarding the internal control report pertaining to 
the business year ending in the last year contains the fact of "disclaimer of 
opinion"; 
 
Rule 207.  Listing Examination 
1.  Listing examination of a stock, etc. for which an initial listing application is made on the 
Standard Market shall be carried out on the matters referred to in each of the following items 
concerning an initial listing applicant and its corporate group: 
(1) Corporate continuity and profitability: 
A business shall be operated continuously and a stable revenue base shall be present; 
(2) Soundness of corporate management: 
An applicant shall carry out business in a fair and faithful manner; 
(3) Effectiveness of corporate governance and internal management system of a corporation: 
Corporate governance and internal management system shall be properly developed and 
functioning; 
(4) Appropriateness of disclosure of corporate information, etc.: 
The applicant shall be in a status where corporate information, etc. can be disclosed in an 
appropriate manner; and 
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of the public 
interest or the protection of investors. 
2.  Listing examination provided in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out on the basis 
of the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to the provisions of each 
paragraph of Rule 204 and questions, etc. 
3.  Listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 (excluding listing examination pertaining to 
a foreign stock, etc.) shall be aimed at being completed within the period specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
4.  Necessary matters concerning listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
5.  Where an initial listing applicant is deemed to be unlikely to satisfy Rule 205, Item (6), a. 
(including cases pursuant to Paragraph 1, Item (1) of the preceding rule) or Paragraph 2, 
Item (3), a. of the preceding rule, listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be 
postponed. 
 
Rule 208.  Technical Listing 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 205 through the preceding rule, in each case referred to 
in the following items, where a company specified in each of such items makes a listing 
application of a stock, etc. issued by the company for the Standard Market as specified in the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
21 
Enforcement Rules (limited to cases specified in the Enforcement Rules if a parent company of 
the surviving company specified by Item (1) or a parent company of such other company 
specified by Item (3) is a foreign company), listing examination shall be carried out as specified 
in the following rule: 
(1) Where a listed stock, etc. is delisted due to dissolution caused by a merger of a listed 
company on the Standard Market, which is an issuer of such a listed stock, etc.: 
The newly created company or the surviving company, or the parent company of the 
surviving company pertaining to such a merger (limited to cases where a stock, etc. whose 
issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such a merger); 
(2) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, 
Item (2) as a result of a merger caused by amendment to the governing law for the 
establishment of a listed company on the Standard Market, which is an issuer of such a 
listed foreign stock, etc., and, in addition, where a foreign stock, etc. of the surviving 
company pertaining to such merger will be immediately listed or continuously traded on a 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.: 
The surviving company pertaining to such merger; 
(3) Where a listed company on the Standard Market becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
another company by a share exchange, share transfer and other means or where it is 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as a status equivalent to this: 
Such other company or the parent of such other company (limited to cases where a stock, 
etc. whose issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such share exchange, 
share transfer and other means); 
(4) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, 
Item (2) as a result of an organizational change of a listed company on the Standard Market, 
which is an issuer of such a listed foreign stock, etc. , to a foreign holding company and, 
in addition, where a foreign stocks, etc. of such a foreign holding company will be 
immediately listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.: 
Such foreign holding company; and 
(5) Where a listed company on the Standard Market is delisted due to falling under the case 
where a listed company on the Standard Market ceases to be the party to the listing 
agreement specified by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (10), a. by making another company 
succeed the listing agreement based on its agreement of an absorption-type company split 
or a plan of an incorporation-type company split at the time of carrying out a spin-off type 
company split (limited to the cases where the Exchange deems that such other company 
will succeed a principal business of the listed company on the Standard Market as specified 
by the Enforcement Rules): 
Such other company (limited to cases where a stock, etc. whose issuer is such a 
company will be delivered at the time of such a spin-off type company split). 
 
Rule 209.  Listing Examination Pertaining to Technical Listing 
1.  Listing examination of a stock, etc. issued by a company specified by each item of the 
preceding rule shall, as a general rule, be carried out pursuant to the criteria referred to in 
each of the following items: 
(1) Where such a stock, etc. is a domestic stock, etc., Rule 205, Items (8) through (12) shall 
be satisfied, and where it is a foreign stock, etc., Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through 
(4) shall be satisfied; 
(2) Where such a stock, etc. shall be unlikely to fall under the cases where the Exchange deems 
that, as of the time of the listing, the details and exercise of shareholders rights are unduly 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
22 
restricted as prescribed by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (15), and where such a stock, etc. 
shall be unlikely to fall under Item (19) nor Item (20) of the same paragraph; 
(3) Where such stock, etc. is a domestic stock, all of the following of a. through d. shall be 
satisfied, and where such a stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (excluding cases of multiple 
listing), all of the following a. through c. shall be satisfied; 
  a. The number of shareholders shall be expected to reach 400 or more by the end of the first 
business year ending after the listing; 
  b. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by the end 
of the first business year ending after the listing; 
  c. The market capitalization of the tradable shares shall be expected to reach JPY 1 billion or 
more by the end of the first business year ending after the listing; and 
  d. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 25% or higher of the total number 
of the listed stock, etc. by the end of the first business year ending after the listing. 
(4) Where such stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (limited to cases of multiple listing), such 
foreign a stock, etc. shall be expected to fall under Rule 502, Paragraph 2, Item (1), a. by 
the end of the first business year ending after the listing. 
2.  With regards to the application of the provisions of Item (3) of the preceding paragraph 
pertaining to a company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end of a business 
year, "the end of the first business year after listing" in the same item shall be "the first 
shareholder, etc. record date after listing". 
                                  
 
Section 3 
Initial Listing on Prime Market 
 
Rule 210.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market 
shall, when it makes an initial listing application, submit a "Security Initial Listing 
Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange which contains the trade name or 
corporate name of such an applicant, the name, class, and number of shares to be issued of 
the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, and other matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as the details of the initial listing applicant and a "Written Oath 
Concerning Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the Exchange as specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
2. An initial listing applicant shall attach the articles of incorporation, "Annual Securities 
Report for Initial Listing Application" containing matters concerning the business group to 
which the initial listing applicant belongs and the status of its accounts, other important 
matters, etc. concerning the substance of the business, and other documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" prescribed in the 
preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for those specified in 
the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by 
the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant that 
makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market pursuant to the provisions for 
technical listing shall attach the articles of incorporation and other documents specified by 
the Enforcement Rules to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" prescribed by 
Paragraph 1. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment of the issuer pursuant 
to the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2, for any documents the issuer was not able to 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
23 
submit at the time of the initial listing application (limited to those in cases where it was 
deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis), out of the attached documents 
specified by the preceding paragraph, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them if 
submission of said documents becomes possible. 
5. Where an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime 
Market (excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing) makes notification concerning offering of a 
security or notification concerning the secondary distribution of a security or submission of 
a notice to the Prime Minister, etc. during the period from the first day of the business year 
containing the initial listing application date to the date on which listing is to be made, or 
where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall submit 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
6. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market 
shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, undergo an audit, interim audit, or interim 
review by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm, and based on such audit 
or review, attach an audit report, interim audit report or interim review report prepared by 
such certified public accountants or audit firm in conformity with the provisions of Article 
193-2 of the Act to the documents concerning financial calculation specified by the 
Enforcement Rules, out of the documents to be submitted referred to in Paragraph 2 through 
the preceding paragraph, submitting them to the Exchange by the time when the Exchange 
approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the initial listing applicant is a foreign 
company specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
7. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market 
(excluding a foreign company to which the provisions of the proviso in the preceding 
paragraph applies, and initial listing applicants who make an initial listing application 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
submit a copy of a summary audit report, a summary interim audit report or a summary 
interim review report  prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm with respect 
to the audit, the interim audit or the interim review prescribed in the same paragraph 
(excluding those specified by the Enforcement Rules) by the time when the Exchange 
approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application. 
8. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market 
(excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the 
provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, attach an audit 
report or a document containing an opinion about financial numerical values, etc. prepared 
by certified public accountants or an audit firm to the documents concerning financial 
calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, and submit them to the Exchange by the 
time when the Exchange approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing 
application, in addition to the provisions of Paragraph 6. 
9. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
applicant to submit an informational report or materials in addition to the documents 
prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing 
examination. 
10. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market shall, 
if the Exchange approves the listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, 
submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules out of documents referred to in 
Paragraphs 2 through 8,.and shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents and the 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public inspection before and 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
24 
after the listing, out of the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to 
the provisions of this rule. 
11. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Prime Market shall, 
if the Exchange approves listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application, 
submit documents describing to the effect that the representative of such initial listing 
applicant is aware that the "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" 
prescribed by Paragraph 2 and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules do not 
contain any untrue statements and the reason as specified by the Enforcement Rules, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing. 
12. In the cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant referred to in 
each of the following items shall submit documents specified in each of such items, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing: 
(1) An initial listing applicant who makes an initial listing application of a domestic stock, 
and a foreign stock, etc. for which the Exchange is a main market: 
The report containing matters concerning corporate governance as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; and 
(2) An initial listing applicant whose structure of the corporate group is deemed to be peculiar 
by the Exchange: 
The report containing risk information pertaining to the structure of the corporate 
group. 
 
Rule 211.  Initial Requirements for Domestic Companies 
Listing examination for the Prime Market specified by Rule 213 pertaining to a domestic stock 
shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items (in cases where an initial listing 
application of a domestic stock referred to in Rule 205, Item (10), a. and c. is made 
simultaneously, listing examination of a domestic stock referred to in such c. shall be carried 
out on that meeting Rule 205, Item (1) and Item (2), a. and b. in place of Item (1) and Item (2), 
a. and b.). In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Number of shareholders: 
The number of shareholders shall be expected to reach 800 or more by the time of listing; 
(2) Number of tradable shares: 
The following a. through c. shall be satisfied; provided, however, that in cases where 
domestic stocks fall under Rule 205, Item (10), b. or c., the following a. and b. shall be 
satisfied: 
a. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 20,000 units or more by the 
time of listing; 
b. The market capitalization of the tradable shares as of the listing date shall be expected 
to reach JPY 10 billion or more; and 
c. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 35% or higher of the number 
of listed stocks, etc. by the time of listing; 
(3) Market capitalization: 
The market capitalization as of the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 25 billion 
or more. 
(4) Amount of net assets: 
The amount of net assets on the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 5 billion or 
more; 
(5) Profit or sales 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
25 
The following a. or b. shall be satisfied. 
a. The total profits in the last two years ("last" years are counted from the end of the 
base business year (meaning the most recent business year for which financial 
statements, etc. are presented in the financial information section of the "Annual 
Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" specified in Paragraph 2 of the 
preceding rule; the same shall apply in this section); the same shall apply in this 
section) shall be JPY 2.5 billion or more; 
b. The amount of sales in the last one (1) year shall be JPY 10 billion or more and market 
capitalization as of the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 100 billion or more. 
(6) Rule 205, Item (3) and Items (6) through (13) shall be satisfied. 
 
Rule 212.  Initial Requirements for Foreign Companies 
 1. Listing examination for the Prime Market specified in the following rule pertaining to a 
foreign stock, etc. shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items. In this 
case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Item (1), Item (2), a. and b. and Items (3) through (5) of the preceding rule shall be 
satisfied; 
(2) Rule 205, Item (3), Item (6) and Item (13) shall be satisfied; and 
(3) Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (4) shall be satisfied. 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, where an initial listing 
applicant is a privatized foreign company, the listing examination as prescribed in the 
following rule pertaining to a foreign stock, etc., shall be conducted on a company 
satisfying each of the following items even if the company does not satisfy Item (5) of the 
preceding rue as applied in Item (1) of the preceding paragraph and Rule 205, Items (3), 
and (6) as applied in Item (2) of the same paragraph . In this case, details of each such item 
shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Profits or sales;  
The following a. or b. shall be satisfied. 
a. The total profits in the last two years (where the Enforcement Rules specify, the period 
for up to two years as specified by the Exchange) shall be JPY 2.5 billion or more; 
b. The amount of sales in the last one (1) year (where the Enforcement Rules specify, the 
period for up to one (1) year as specified by the Exchange) shall be JPY 10 billion or 
more and market capitalization as of the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 
100 billion or more. 
(2) Number of consecutive years of conducting business: 
It shall be required that the business operated by a privatized foreign company has been 
in continuous operation for more than three years ago calculated from the initial listing 
application date; 
 (3) False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
     The following a. through d. shall be satisfied: 
      a. False statement shall not be made in annual securities reports, etc. containing or 
making reference to financial documents for each business year which ended in the 
last two years (where the Enforcement Rules specify, the period for up to two years 
as specified by the Exchange; the same shall apply to the following b.); 
      b. Audit reports attached to financial documents for each business year ended in the last 
two years (excluding those attached to financial statements, etc. for the business year 
and the consolidated accounting year which ended in the last year) shall contain an 
"unqualified opinion" or a "qualified opinion with exceptions"; provided, however, 
that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
26 
otherwise; 
      c. Audit reports attached to financial documents for the business year ended in the last 
year shall contain an "unqualified opinion" of certified public accountants, etc.; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply the cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise; and 
      d. Where a foreign stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any 
other financial instruments exchange in Japan, such stock, etc. shall not fall under the 
following (a) nor (b): 
(a) The internal control report pertaining to the business year ending in the last year 
contains the fact that "appraisal results cannot be provided"; and 
(b) The internal control audit report regarding the internal control report pertaining to 
the business year ending in the last year contains the fact of "disclaimer of 
opinion". 
 
Rule 213.  Listing Examination 
1.  Listing examination of a stock, etc. for which an initial listing application is made on the 
Prime Market shall be carried out on the matters referred to in each of the following items 
concerning an initial listing applicant and its corporate group: 
(1) Corporate continuity and profitability: 
A business shall be operated continuously and a stable and excellent revenue base shall 
be present; 
(2) Soundness of corporate management: 
An applicant shall carry out business in a fair and faithful manner; 
(3) Effectiveness of corporate governance and internal management system of a corporation: 
Corporate governance and internal management system shall be properly developed and 
functioning; 
(4) Appropriateness of disclosure of corporate information, etc.: 
An applicant shall be in a status where corporate information, etc. can be disclosed in an 
appropriate manner; and 
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of the public 
interest or the protection of investors 
2.  Listing examination provided in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out on the basis 
of the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to the provisions of each 
paragraph of Rule 210 and questions, etc. 
3.  Listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 (excluding listing examination pertaining to 
foreign stocks, etc.) shall be aimed at being completed within the period specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
4.  Necessary matters concerning listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
5.  Where an initial listing applicant is deemed to be unlikely to satisfy Rule 205, Item (6), a. 
or Paragraph 2, Item (3), a. of the preceding rule which is applied pursuant to Rule 211, 
Item (6) and Paragraph 1, Item (2) of the preceding paragraph, listing examination provided 
in Paragraph 1 shall be postponed. 
 
 
Rule 214.  Technical Listing 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 211 through the preceding rule, in each case referred to 
in the following items, where a company specified in each of such items makes a listing 
application of a stock, etc. issued by the company for the Prime Market as specified in the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
27 
Enforcement Rules (limited to cases specified in the Enforcement Rules if a parent company of 
the surviving company specified by Item (1) or a parent company of such other company 
specified by Item (3) is a foreign company), listing examination shall be carried out as specified 
in the following rule: 
(1) Where a listed stock, etc. is delisted due to dissolution caused by a merger of a listed 
company on the Prime Market, which is an issuer of such a listed stock, etc.: 
The newly created company or the surviving company, or the parent company of the 
surviving company pertaining to such a merger (limited to cases where a stock, etc. whose 
issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such merger); 
(2) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item 
(2) as a result of a merger caused by amendment to the governing law for the establishment 
of a listed company on the Prime Market, which is an issuer of such a listed foreign stock, etc. 
and, in addition, where a foreign stock, etc. of the surviving company pertaining to such a 
merger will be immediately listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments 
exchange, etc.: 
The surviving company pertaining to such merger; 
(3) Where a listed company on the Prime Market becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
another company by a share exchange, share transfer and other means or where it is specified 
by the Enforcement Rules as a status equivalent to this: 
Such other company or the parent of such other company (limited to cases where stocks, 
etc. whose issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such share exchange, 
share transfer and other means); 
(4) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item 
(2) as a result of an organizational change of a listed company on the Prime Market, which is 
an issuer of such a listed foreign stock, etc., to a foreign holding company and, in addition, 
where foreign stocks, etc. of such foreign holding company will be immediately listed or 
continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.: 
Such foreign holding company; and 
(5) Where a listed company on the Prime Market is delisted due to falling under the case where  
a listed company on the Prime Market ceases to be the party to the listing agreement specified 
by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (10), a. by making another company succeed the listing 
agreement based on its agreement of an absorption-type company split or a plan of an 
incorporation-type company split at the time of carrying out a spin-off type company split 
(limited to the cases where the Exchange deems that such other company will succeed a 
principal business of the listed company on the Prime Market as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules): 
Such other company (limited to cases where stocks, etc. whose issuer is such a 
company will be delivered at the time of such a spin-off type company split). 
 
Rule 215.  Listing Examination Pertaining to Technical Listing 
1.  Listing examination of a stock, etc. issued by a company specified by each item of the 
preceding rule shall, as a general rule, be carried out pursuant to the criteria referred to in 
each of the following items: 
(1) Where such a stock, etc. is a domestic stock, etc., Rule 205, Items (8) through (12) shall 
be satisfied, and where it is a foreign stock, etc., Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through 
(4) shall be satisfied; 
(2) Where such a stock, etc. shall be unlikely to fall under the cases where the Exchange deems 
that, as of the time of the listing, the details and exercise of shareholders rights are unduly 
restricted as prescribed by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (15), and where such a stock, etc. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
28 
shall be unlikely to fall under Item (19) nor Item (20) of the same paragraph; 
(3)Where such stock, etc. is a domestic stock, all of the following a. through d. shall be 
satisfied, and where such stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (excluding cases of multiple 
listing), all of the following a. through c. shall be satisfied; 
  a. The number of shareholders shall be expected to reach 800 or more by the end of the first 
business year ending after the listing; 
  b. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 20,000 units or more by the end 
of the first business year ending after the listing; 
  c. The market capitalization of the tradable shares shall be expected to reach JPY 10 billion 
or more by the end of the first business year ending after the listing; and 
  d. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 35% or higher of the total 
number of the listed stock, etc. by the end of the first business year ending after the listing; 
and 
(4) Where such stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (limited to cases of multiple listing), such 
foreign stock, etc. shall be expected to fall under Rule 502, Paragraph 2, Item (2), a. by 
the end of the first business year ending after the listing. 
2.  With regards to the application of the provisions of Item (3) of the preceding paragraph 
pertaining to a company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end of a business 
year, "the end of the first business year after listing" in the same item shall be "the first 
shareholder, etc. record date after listing". 
 
 
Section 4 
Initial Listing on Growth Market 
 
Rule 216.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
shall, when it makes an initial listing application, submit a "Security Initial Listing 
Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange which contains the trade name or 
corporate name of such an applicant, the name, class, and number of shares to be issued of 
the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, and other matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as the details of the initial listing applicant and a "Written Oath 
Concerning Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the Exchange as specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
2. An initial listing applicant shall attach the articles of incorporation, "Annual Securities 
Report for Initial Listing Application" containing matters concerning the business group to 
which the applicant belongs and the status of its accounts, other important matters, etc. 
concerning the details of the business, and other documents specified by the Enforcement 
Rules to the Security Initial Listing Application Form as prescribed in the preceding 
paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for those  specified in the 
Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by the 
Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant that 
makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market pursuant to the provisions for 
technical listing shall attach the articles of incorporation and other documents specified by 
the Enforcement Rules to the Security Initial Listing Application Form prescribed by 
Paragraph 1. 
4.  Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment of the issuer pursuant 
to the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2, for any documents the issuer was not able to 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
29 
submit at the time of the initial listing application (limited to those in cases where it was 
deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis), out of the attached documents 
specified by the preceding paragraph, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them if 
submission of said documents becomes possible. 
5.. Where an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth 
Market (excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing) makes notification concerning offering of a 
security or notification concerning the secondary distribution of a security or submission of 
a notice to the Prime Minister, etc. during the period from the first day of the business year 
containing the initial listing application date to the date on which listing is to be made, or 
where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall submit 
documents as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
6. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, undergo an audit, interim audit, or interim 
review by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm, and based on such audit 
or review, attach an audit report, interim audit report or interim review report prepared by 
such certified public accountants or audit firm in conformity with the provisions of Article 
193-2 of the Act to documents concerning financial calculation specified by the 
Enforcement Rules, out of the documents to be submitted referred to in Paragraph 2 through 
the preceding paragraph, submitting them to the Exchange by the time when the Exchange 
approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application, out of the 
documents to be submitted referred to in Paragraph 2 through the preceding paragraph; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the initial listing applicant 
is a foreign company specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
7. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
(excluding a foreign company to which the provisions of the proviso in the preceding 
paragraph applies, and initial listing applicants who make an initial listing application 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
submit a copy of a summary audit report, a summary interim audit report or a summary 
interim review report prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm with respect 
to the audit, the interim audit or the interim review prescribed in the same paragraph 
(excluding those specified by the Enforcement Rules) by the time when the Exchange 
approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application. 
8. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
(excluding an initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the 
provisions for technical listing) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, attach an 
audit report or a document containing an opinion about financial numerical values, etc. 
prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm to the documents concerning 
financial calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, and submit them to the Exchange 
by the time when the Exchange approves listing of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial 
listing application, in addition to the provisions of Paragraph 6. 
9. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
applicant to submit an informational report or materials in addition to the documents 
prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing 
examination. 
10. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
shall, if the Exchange approves the listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing 
application, submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules out of documents 
referred to in Paragraphs 2 through 8, and shall agree that the Exchange makes such 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
30 
documents and the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public 
inspection before and after the listing, out of the documents submitted by the initial listing 
applicant pursuant to the provisions of this rule. 
11. An initial listing applicant that makes an initial listing application for the Growth Market 
shall, if the Exchange approves listing of a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing 
application, submit documents describing to the effect that the representative of such initial 
listing applicant is aware that the "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" 
prescribed by Paragraph 2 and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules do not 
contain any untrue statements and the reason as specified by the Enforcement Rules, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing. 
12. In the cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant referred to in 
each of the following items shall submit documents specified in each of such items, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing: 
(1) An initial listing applicant who makes an initial listing application of a domestic stock 
and a foreign stock, etc. for which the Exchange is a main market: 
The report containing matters concerning corporate governance as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; and 
(2) An initial listing applicant whose corporate group structure is deemed to be peculiar by 
the Exchange: 
The report containing risk information pertaining to the structure of the corporate 
group 
 
Rule 217.  Initial Requirements for Domestic Companies 
Listing examination for the Growth Market specified in Rule 219 pertaining to a domestic stock 
shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items (in cases where an initial listing 
application of a domestic stock referred to in Rule 205, Item (10), a. and c. is made 
simultaneously, listing examination of a domestic stock referred to in such c. shall be carried 
out on that meeting Rule 205, Item (1) and Item (2),  a. and b. in place of Item (1) and Item 
(2), a. and b.). In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) Number of shareholders: 
    The number of shareholders shall be expected to reach 150 or more by the time of listing; 
 (2) Number of tradable shares: 
The following a. through c. shall be satisfied; provided, however, that in cases where a 
domestic stock falls under Rule 205, Item (10), b. or c., the following a. and b. shall be 
satisfied: 
  a. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 1,000 units or more by the 
time of listing; 
  b. The market capitalization of the tradable shares on the listing date shall be expected 
to reach JPY 500 million or more; and 
  c. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 25% or higher of the number 
of the listed stock, etc. by the time of listing; 
 (3) Implementation of public offering: 
An applicant shall carry out a public offering of a stock, etc. of 500 units or more pertaining 
to an initial listing application during the period from the initial listing application date to 
the date preceding the listing date; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where either of the following a. or b. is applicable: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
31 
a. The market capitalization as of the listing day is expected to reach JPY 25 billion or 
more; 
b. The initial listing applicant is a company which will succeed the business of a listed 
company due to a spin-off type company split and the initial listing application is carried 
out before such a spin-off type company split, and, in addition, no public offering of the 
stock, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application is made during the period from the 
initial listing application day to the date prior to the listing day 
 (4) Number of consecutive years of conducting business: 
    It shall be required for an applicant to have conducted business activities as a stock 
company for more than 1 (one) year calculated from the initial listing application date;; 
 (5) False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
    The following a. through d. shall be satisfied: 
  a. The audit report attached to an "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" 
specified in Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule (excluding an audit report attached to 
financial statements, etc. for the business year or the consolidated business year ending in 
the last one year ("last" years are counted from the end of the base business year (meaning 
the most recent business year for which financial statements, etc. are presented in the 
financial information section of the "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing 
Application" specified in the Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule); the same shall apply in 
this section) shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or a "qualified opinion with exceptions" 
of certified public accountants, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
  b. The audit report (limited to an audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for the 
business year or the consolidated business year ended in the last year), an interim audit 
report or an interim review report attached to a "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing 
Application" specified in Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule shall contain an "unqualified 
opinion", an "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. provide useful information" 
or an "unqualified conclusion" of certified public accountants, etc.; provided, however, that 
the same shall not apply to cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
  c. No false statement shall be made in an annual securities report, etc. containing or making 
reference to financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to the 
audit report, the interim audit report, or the interim review report prescribed by a. and the 
preceding b.; and 
d. Where a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any other financial 
instruments exchange in Japan, such a stock, etc. shall not fall under the following (a) nor 
(b): 
(a) The internal control report pertaining to the business year ending in the last year 
contains the fact that "appraisal results cannot be provided"; and 
(b) The internal control audit report regarding an internal control report pertaining to a 
business year ending in the last year contains the fact that of "disclaimer of opinion"; 
 (6) Audit by a registered listed company auditor: 
It shall be required that an applicant has undergone an audit, interim audit or interim review 
equivalent to that in the provisions of Article 193-2 of the Act by a registered listed 
company auditor (limited to those which have undergone quality control reviews by The 
Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants) (excluding those deemed 
inappropriate by the Exchange) for its financial statement, etc. or interim financial 
statement, etc. contained in or attached to an “Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing 
Application” specified in Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule; and 
 (7) Rule 205, Items (8) through (12) shall be satisfied. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
32 
 
Rule 218.   Initial Requirements for Foreign Companies 
Listing examination for the Growth Market specified in the following rule pertaining to a 
foreign stock, etc. shall be carried out on that meeting each of the following items. In this 
case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Item (1), Item (2), a. and b. and Items (3) through (5) of the preceding rule shall be 
satisfied; and 
   (2) Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (4) must be met. 
       
Rule 219.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a stock, etc. for which an initial listing application is made on the 
Growth Market shall be carried out on the matters referred to in each of the following 
items concerning an initial listing applicant and its corporate group: 
(1) Proper disclosure of corporate information, risk information, etc.: 
An applicant shall be in a status where corporate information, risk information, etc. can 
be disclosed in a proper manner;  
(2) Soundness of corporate management: 
An applicant shall be carrying out business in a fair and faithful manner; 
(3) Effectiveness of corporate governance and internal management system of a 
corporation: 
Corporate governance and internal management system shall be developed in 
accordance with the size or maturity, etc. of the corporation and shall be functioning 
properly; 
(4) Reasonableness of the business plan 
It shall be required that an applicant has developed reasonable and suitable business 
plans, and has developed the operating base necessary for executing such business plans, 
or there is reasonable expectation that it will develop such operating base; 
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of the public   
interest or the protection of investors. 
2. Listing examination provided in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out on the basis 
of the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to the provisions of 
each paragraph of Rule 216 and questions, etc. 
3. Listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 (excluding listing examination pertaining to 
foreign stocks, etc.) shall be aimed at being completed within the period specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
4. Necessary matters concerning listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
5. Where an initial listing applicant is deemed to be unlikely to satisfy Rule 217, Item (5), c. 
(including cases where the provisions of Item (1) of the preceding rule are applied), listing 
examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be postponed. 
 
 
Rule 220.  Technical Listing 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 217 through the preceding rule, in each case referred to 
in the following items, where a company specified in each of such items makes a listing 
application of a stock, etc. issued by the company for the Growth Market as specified in the 
Enforcement Rules (limited to cases specified in the Enforcement Rules if a parent company of 
the surviving company specified by Item (1) or a parent company of such other company 
specified by Item (3) is a foreign company), listing examination shall be carried out as specified 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
33 
in the following rule: 
(1) Where a listed stock, etc. is delisted due to a dissolution caused by a merger of a listed 
company on the Growth Market, which is an issuer of such a listed stock, etc.: 
The newly created company or the surviving company or the parent company of the 
surviving company pertaining to such merger (limited to cases where a stock, etc. whose 
issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such a merger); 
(2) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, 
Item (2) as a result of a merger caused by amendment to the governing law for the 
establishment of a -listed company on the Growth Market, which is an issuer of such a 
listed foreign stock, etc., and, in addition, where a foreign stock, etc. of the surviving 
company pertaining to such merger will be immediately listed or continuously traded on a 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.: 
The surviving company pertaining to such merger;  
(3) Where a listed company on the Growth Market becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
another company by a share exchange, share transfer, and other means or where it is 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as a status equivalent to this:  
Such other company or its parent of such other company (limited to cases where stocks, 
etc. whose issuer is such a company will be delivered at the time of such share exchange, 
share transfer and other means); 
(4) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. is delisted due to falling under Rule 602, Paragraph 2, 
Item (2) as a result of an organizational change of a listed company on the Growth Market, 
which is an issuer of such a listed foreign stock, etc., to a foreign holding company, and in 
addition, a foreign stock, etc. of such foreign holding company will be immediately listed 
or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.: 
Such foreign holding company; and 
(5) Where a listed company on the Growth Market is delisted due to falling under the case 
where the listed company on the Growth Market ceases to be the party to the listing 
agreement specified by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (10), a.by making another company 
succeed the listing agreement based on an absorption-type company split agreement or an 
incorporation-type company split plan at the time of carrying out a spin-off type company 
split (limited to the case where the Exchange deems that such other company will succeed 
the principal business of the listed company on the Growth Market as specified in the 
Enforcement Rules): 
Such other company (limited to the case where a stock, etc. whose issuer is such a 
company will be delivered at the time of such a spin-off type company split)  
 
Rule 221.  Listing Examination Pertaining to Technical Listing 
1.  Listing examination of a stock, etc. issued by a company as specified by each item of the 
preceding rule shall, as a general rule, be carried out pursuant to the criteria referred to in 
each of the following items: 
(1) Where such stock, etc. is a domestic stock, etc., Rule 205, Items (8) through (12) shall be 
satisfied, and where it is a foreign stock, etc., Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (4) 
shall be satisfied; 
(2) Where such a stock, etc. shall be unlikely to fall under the cases where the Exchange deems 
that, as of the time of the listing, the details and exercise of shareholders rights are unduly 
restricted as prescribed by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (15), and where such a stock, etc. 
shall be unlikely to fall under Item (19) nor Item (20) of the same paragraph; 
(3) Where such stock, etc. is a domestic stock, all of the following a. through d. shall be 
satisfied, and where such stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (excluding cases of multiple 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
34 
listing), all of the following a. through c. shall be satisfied; 
  a. The number of shareholders shall be expected to reach 150 or more by the end of the first 
business year ending after the listing; 
  b. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 1,000 units or more by the end 
of the first business year ending after the listing; 
  c. The market capitalization of the tradable shares is expected to reach JPY 500 million or 
more by the end of the first business year ending after the listing; and 
  d. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 25% or higher of the total number 
of a listed stock, etc. by the end of the first business year ending after the listing; and 
(4) Where such stock, etc. is a foreign stock, etc. (limited to cases of multiple listing), such a 
foreign a stock, etc. shall be expected to fall under Rule 502, Paragraph 2, Item (3), a. by 
the end of the first business year ending after the listing. 
2.  With regards to the application of the provisions of Item (3) of the preceding paragraph 
pertaining to a company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end of a business 
year, "the end of the first business year after listing" in the same item shall be "the first 
shareholder, etc. record date after listing". 
 
 
Section 5 
Public Offering or Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing 
 
Rule 222.  Public Offering, Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing 
Necessary matters concerning public offering or secondary distribution, acquisition or transfer 
of shares, and allocation of offered shares by third-party allotment, etc. (meaning a method of 
allotting offered shares other than allotment to shareholders) shall be prescribed by the 
Enforcement Rules in order to ensure fairness of going public with regard to listing of a  stock, 
etc. issued by an initial listing applicant.  
 
 
Section 6 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 223.  Special Provisions on Cases where an Initial Listing Applicant 
Applying for an Initial Listing on the Standard Market is Scheduled to 
Conduct a Merger, etc. on or before the Listing Date 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 1, an initial listing applicant 
may, in the cases of acts scheduled as referred to in each of the following items, apply 
for the initial listing of stock, etc. issued by entities specified in each item on the 
Standard Market in accordance with the classification of acts referred to in said items. 
In this case, the initial listing application procedures and other matters necessary in 
relation to the application of the provisions shall be specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
(1) Merger where the company is dissolved on or before the listing date (excluding 
cases where a listed company is the company in question.) 
The company to be newly established or surviving company, or parent company 
of the surviving company pertaining to the merger (limited to cases where the 
stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such merger is conducted.); 
(2) Share exchange or share transfer where the company becomes a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of another company on or before the listing date (excluding cases where 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
35 
a listed company is the company in question.) 
Such other company or parent company of such other company (limited to cases 
where the stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such share 
exchange or share transfer is conducted.) 
2. The provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases 
where an initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, "date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to 
the preceding two paragraphs" in Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be "date when the 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provision of Rule 223, Paragraph 1". 
3. An initial listing applicant applying for an initial listing on the Standard Market 
pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall submit, other than the documents 
prescribed in Rule 204, Paragraphs 1 through 8, documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules by a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
4. When applying for an initial listing on the Standard Market pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 1, the documents prescribed in Rule 204, Paragraph 12 shall be 
submitted by the entities specified in each item of Paragraph 1. 
5. With regards to the application of the provisions of Rule 205 to an initial listing 
applicant applying for initial listing on the Standard Market pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 1, "a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application" in Item (6), d. 
of the same rule shall be "a stock, etc. issued by the initial listing applicant". 
6. With regards to the application of the provisions of Rule 206 to an initial listing 
applicant applying for initial listing on the  Standard Market pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 1, "Items (1), Item (2),  a. and b. and Items (3) through (6) 
…… of the preceding rule" in Paragraph 1, Item (1) of the same rule shall be "Items 
(1), Item (2), a. and b. and Items (3) through (5) of the preceding rule, Rule 205, Item 
(6) applied with rewording in Rule 223, Paragraph 5", and "a foreign stock, etc. 
pertaining to an initial listing application" in Paragraph 2, Item (3), d. of the same rule 
shall be "a foreign stock, etc. issued by an initial listing applicant". 
 
Rule 224.  Special Provisions on Cases where an Initial Listing Applicant 
Applying for an Initial Listing on the Prime Market is Scheduled to 
Conduct a Merger, etc. on or before the Listing Date 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 1, an initial listing applicant 
may, in the cases of acts scheduled as referred to in each of the following items, apply 
for the initial listing of stock, etc. issued by entities specified in each item on the 
Prime Market in accordance with the classification of acts referred to in said items. In 
this case, the initial listing application procedures and other matters necessary in 
relation to the application of the provisions shall be specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
(1) Merger where the company is dissolved on or before the listing date (excluding 
cases where a listed company is the company in question.) 
The company to be newly established or surviving company, or parent company 
of the surviving company pertaining to the merger (limited to cases where the 
stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such merger is conducted.); 
(2) Shae exchange or share transfer where the company becomes a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of another company on or before the listing date (excluding cases where 
a listed company is the company in question.) 
Such other company or parent company of such other company (limited to cases 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
36 
where the stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such share 
exchange or share transfer is conducted.) 
2. The provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases 
where an initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, "date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to 
the preceding two paragraphs" in Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be "date when the 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provision of Rule 224, Paragraph 1". 
3. An initial listing applicant applying for an initial listing on the Prime Market pursuant 
to the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall submit, other than the documents prescribed in 
Rule 210, Paragraphs 1 through 8, documents specified by the Enforcement Rules by 
a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
4. When applying for an initial listing on the Prime Market pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 1, the documents prescribed in Rule 210, Paragraph 12 shall be submitted 
by the entities specified in each item of Paragraph 1. 
5. With regards to an initial listing applicant applying for an initial listing on the Prime 
Market pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, "a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial 
listing application" in Rule 205, Item (6), d. as applied pursuant to the provisions of 
Rule 211, Item (6), shall be "a stock, etc. issued by an initial listing applicant". 
6. With regards to the application of the provisions of Rule 212 to an initial listing 
applicant applying for initial listing on the Prime Market pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 1, "Rule 205, Item (3), Item (6)" in Paragraph 1, Item (2) of the same rule 
shall be "Rule 205, Item (6) applied with rewording in Rule 205, Item (3), Rule 224, 
Paragraph 5", and "a foreign stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application" in 
Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the same rule, d. shall be "a foreign stock, etc. issued by an 
initial listing applicant". 
 
Rule 225.  Special Provisions on Cases where an Initial Listing Applicant 
Applying for an Initial Listing on Growth Market is Scheduled to 
Conduct a Merger, etc. on or before the Listing Date 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 1, an initial listing applicant 
may, in the cases of acts scheduled as referred to in each of the following items, apply 
for the initial listing of stock, etc. issued by the entities specified in each item on the 
Growth Market in accordance with the classification of acts referred to in said items. 
In this case, the initial listing application procedures and other matters necessary in 
relation to the application of the provisions shall be specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
(1) Merger where the company is dissolved on or before the listing date (excluding 
cases where a listed company is the company in question.) 
The company to be newly established or surviving company, or parent company 
of the surviving company pertaining to the merger (limited to cases where the 
stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such merger is conducted.); 
(2) Share exchange or share transfer where the company becomes a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of another company on or before the listing date (excluding cases where 
a listed company is the company in question.) 
Such other company or parent company of such other company (limited to cases 
where the stock, etc. issued by such company is delivered when such share 
exchange or share transfer is conducted.) 
2. The provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
37 
where an initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, "date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to 
the preceding two paragraphs" in Rule 201, Paragraph 3 shall be "date when the 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provision of Rule 225, Paragraph 1". 
3. An initial listing applicant applying for an initial listing on Growth Market pursuant 
to the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall submit, other than the documents prescribed in 
Rule 216, Paragraphs 1 through 8, documents specified by the Enforcement Rules by 
a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
4. When applying for an initial listing on Growth Market pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 1, the documents prescribed in Rule 216, Paragraph 12 shall be submitted 
by the entities specified in each item of Paragraph 1. 
5. With regards to the application of the provisions of Rule 217 to an initial listing 
applicant applying for initial listing on Growth Market pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 1, "a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application" in Item (3) and 
Item (5), d. of the same rule shall be "a stock, etc. issued by an initial listing 
applicant". 
 
Rule 226.  Special Provisions for Cases Where Stocks, etc. Pertaining to Initial 
Listing Application are Scheduled to be Allocated by Listed Company 
by Means of Dividends from Surplus 
In cases where stocks, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application are scheduled to be 
allocated by a listed company by means of dividends from surplus (limited to cases where 
the initial listing applicant is a subsidiary of said listed company immediately before said 
dividends from surplus are paid) and the provisions of Rule 205, Items (1) and (2) 
(including cases pursuant to Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Item (1)), Item (12) of the same Rule 
(including cases pursuant to Rule 211, Item (6) and Rule 217, Item (7)), Rule 206, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2) (including cases pursuant to Rule 212, Paragraph 1, Item (3) and 
Rule 218, Item (2)), Rule 211, Items (1) and (2) (including cases pursuant to Rule 212, 
Paragraph 1, Item (1)), and Rule 217, Items (1) and (2) (including cases pursuant to Rule 
218, Item (1)) (for the provisions of Rule 205, Items (1) and (2), Rule 211, Items (1) and 
(2), and Rule 217, Items (1) and (2), including cases applied with rewording pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 715, Paragraphs 1 through 3) are applied to said stocks, etc. in 
cases where the Exchange deems it appropriate, “the time of listing” and “the listing date” 
in these provisions shall be replaced with “the effective date of dividends from surplus by 
which stocks, etc. pertaining to the initial listing application are allocated.” 
 
 
Chapter 3 
Listing of New Stocks, etc. and Transfer of Market Segments 
 
Section 1 
Listing of New Stocks, etc. 
 
Rule 301.  Listing Application of New Stock, etc. 
1. Where a listed company makes an application for listing a stock, etc. or a subscription 
warrant security which the Exchange has not listed yet, such listed company shall submit 
a "Security Listing Application Form" containing the matters specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
38 
2. Where a listed company newly issues the same class of stock, etc. as a listed stock, etc., 
the listed company shall, as a general rule, apply for the listing by submitting the "Security 
Listing Application Form" as in the preceding paragraph on a case-by-case basis in 
advance of such issue. Details of listing application in this case shall be provided by the 
Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that in the cases where mattes specified in the 
Enforcement Rules prescribed in the preceding paragraph are included in the disclosure of 
corporate information pursuant to the provisions of Part 2, Chapter 4, Section 2 or 
documents submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 421, the 
Exchange shall deem that the listed company makes an application for its listing by such 
disclosure or submission. 
3. If stock, etc. for which a listing application has been made in the case prescribed in 
Paragraph 1 is a different class of stock, etc. from listed stock, etc., a listed company shall 
attach an "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" and other documents 
specified by the Enforcement Rules to the "Security Listing Application Form", and shall 
submit a "Written Oath Pertaining to the Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the 
Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
4. The listing application prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be an 
application for the same market segment on which a listed stock, etc. issued by an applicant 
listed company is listed. 
5. In cases where a stock, etc. of a different class to the listed stock, etc. or a subscription 
warrant security is not listed within one (1) year counting from the date when the listing 
application is made for said stock, etc. or subscription warrant security, said listing 
application shall become invalid. 
6. If the Exchange deems it necessary for the listing examination in Rule 302-2, Paragraph 
1, the Exchange may request a listed company for submission of referential reports or 
materials and other cooperation to the listing examination in addition to submission of 
documents prescribed in Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 3. 
7. A listed company that is an issuer of stock, etc. for which a listing application prescribed 
in Paragraph 3 shall, if the Exchange has approved listing of said stock, etc., agree that the 
Exchange makes documents specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of documents 
submitted pursuant to said paragraph, available for public inspection. 
8. Where the Exchange lists a stock, etc. or a subscription warrant security based on the 
listing application in Paragraph 1, the Exchange shall newly make or amend descriptions 
on said stock, etc. or security pertaining to said application in the listed securities ledger. 
 
Rule 302.  Listing of the Same Class of New Stock, etc. 
Where a stock, etc. for which a listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding rule is a stock, etc. which a listed company newly issues and which is the same class 
as a listed stock, etc., the Exchange shall, as a general rule, approve listing of such stocks, etc. 
and details of the listing shall be provided by each of the following items: 
(1) Out of the domestic stocks which a listed domestic company newly issues by means of a 
paid allotment to shareholders, those specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be listed by 
when-issued transactions; 
(2) Where a stock, etc. to be newly issued by a listed company, whose relations of the rights are 
different from those of a listed stock, etc., meet the criteria prescribed by the Enforcement 
Rules, the Exchange shall list it by adding to the listed stock, etc. when it is issued; 
(3) Where a stock, etc. to be newly issued by a listed company whose relations of the rights are 
different from those of a listed stock, etc. shall not be listed pursuant to the provisions of 
the preceding item, the Exchange shall list it by adding to the listed stock, etc. when the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
39 
relations of rights become the same; and 
(4) Other than cases as provided by the provisions of the preceding three items, the Exchange 
shall list a stock, etc. to be newly issued by a listed company by adding to the listed stock, 
etc., as a general rule, when it is issued. 
 
Rule 302-2.  Listing Examination of a Different Class of New Stock, etc. 
1. In the event that a stock, etc., for which a listing application has been made pursuant to Rule 
301 is a different class of stock, etc. than a listed stock, etc., the Exchange conduct listing 
examinations on matters that it deems necessary in light of the public interest or investor 
protection with regard to stocks, etc., that meet criteria specified in each of the following 
items: 
(1) A stock, etc. issued by said listed company shall be a share with voting rights referred 
to in Rule 205, Item (10), a. 
(2) A stock, etc. pertaining to said listing application shall be a share without voting rights. 
(3) A stock, etc. shall satisfy Rule 205, Item (1), Item (2), a. and b., Item (9), Item (11) and 
Item (12) 
2. The Exchange shall conduct listing examinations in the preceding paragraph based on 
documents submitted by the listed company pursuant to Rule 301, Paragraphs 1 and 3, and 
inquiries, etc. 
3. Matters that the Exchange deems necessary with respect to the listing examination in 
Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by the Guideline for Listing Examinations, etc. 
 
Rule 303.  Listing of Stock, etc. to be Delivered in Exchange for Classified Shares, etc. 
subject to Whole Acquisition Clause 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 302, where a stock, etc. for which a listing application 
has been made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 301 are a stock, etc. pertaining to a share 
delivered in exchange for a share pertaining to the issue which is delisted due to falling under 
the provisions of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (16) (including cases pursuant to Rule 602, 
Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3)) (excluding the case where such stock, etc. are 
the same class of listed stock, etc. that are a different class of stock, etc. from the stock, etc. to 
be delisted), the Exchange shall approve listing of such stock, etc. when they meet the criteria 
specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 304.  Listing of Subscription Warrant Securities 
1. Where a subscription warrant security for which a listing application has been made pursuant 
to the provisions of Rule 301 has a listed stock, etc. as its objective, the Exchange shall 
approve listing if it meets criteria prescribed by the following items: 
(1) A subscription warrant security for which a listing application has been made shall meet 
criteria prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
(2) A listed company that is an issuer of a subscription warranty security has implemented 
either of procedures in the following a. or b. (excluding a case where such listed company 
has concluded an agreement prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 6, Item (3) of the Act 
(hereinafter referred to as "the commitment-type case" in this rule)) 
a. Examination by trading participants on rationality of capital increase 
b. Confirmation of the intent of shareholders by means such as a resolution in the general 
shareholders meeting 
(3) Management performance and financial condition of a listed company that is an issuer of 
a subscription warrant security do not fall under any of the following a. and b. (excluding 
the commitment-type case) 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
40 
a. There is no business year in which profits are positive in the last two years ("last" years 
are counted from the end of the base business year (meaning the business year covered by 
the most recently submitted annual securities report, etc.)). In this case, the handling of 
such profits shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
b. The amount of net assets falls to or below zero (0) at the end of the immediately preceding 
interim accounting period or business year (meaning the interim accounting period or 
business year covered by the most recently submitted semiannual securities report or 
annual securities report). In this case, the handling of net assets shall be specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
(4) The listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the public interest or 
investor protection. 
2. Where a subscription warrant security is to be listed pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph, an entity who has made such listing application shall submit a "Written 
Statement of Assurance" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination defined in Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by the 
Guidelines concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
4. Other necessary matters concerning listing of subscription warrant securities shall be 
specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 305.  Alteration Listing Application  
1. In addition to cases prescribed by Rule 301, where a listed company intends to alter a name, 
quantity or class of a listed stock, etc. or face value, if any, or set up or change the number of 
shares constituting one unit, the listed company shall make an application for such alteration, 
etc. by submitting a "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" predetermined by the 
Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules on a case by case basis in 
advance of such alteration, etc.; provided, however, that in the cases where mattes to be 
described in said Security Alteration Listing Application Form are included in the disclosure 
of corporate information pursuant to the provisions of Part 2, Chapter 4, Section 2 or 
documents submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 421, the Exchange 
shall deem that the listed company makes an application for such alteration, etc. by such 
disclosure or submission.  
2. Where the Exchange makes alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on the day of 
such alteration listing. 
 
Section 2 
Transfer of Market Segments 
 
Rule 306.  Application for Transfer of Market Segments 
1. Transfer of a market segment of a listed stock, etc. to another market segment (means a 
market segment other than market segment on which a listed stock, etc. is listed, out of the 
Standard Market, Prime Market or Growth Market; the same shall apply hereinafter) shall be 
carried out upon application made by a listed company. 
2. An applicant for transfer of a market segment on the basis of the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph (hereinafter referred to as "an applicant for transfer of a market segment") shall 
file an application for transfer of a market segment to the same market segment with respect 
to all the listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by such applicant for 
transfer of a market segment. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
41 
3. In cases where a transfer of market segment is not made within one (1) year counting from 
the date when the application for transfer of market segment is made pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 1, said application for transfer of market segment shall become 
invalid. 
4. An applicant for transfer of a market segment shall submit "Written Application for Transfer 
of a Market Segment" prescribed by the Exchange and "Written Oath Pertaining to 
Application for Transfer of a Market Segment" prescribed by the Exchange as provided by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
5. An applicant for transfer of a market segment shall attach the "Annual Securities Report for 
Application for Transfer of a Market Segment" which contain the status of a business group 
to which the applicant for transfer of a market segment belongs, the accounts and other 
important matters, etc. concerning the business details and other documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules to the "Written Application for Transfer of a Market Segment" prescribed 
in the preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for those 
specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date 
specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
6. An applicant for transfer of market segment shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
attach an audit report or a document containing an opinion about financial numerical values, 
etc. prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm to the documents concerning 
financial calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, and submit them to the Exchange 
by the time when the Exchange approves the market segment transfer of the stock, etc. 
pertaining to the application for transfer of market segment.  
7. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for the examination of transfer of a market segment, 
request an applicant for transfer of a market segment to submit an informational report or 
materials in addition to documents as prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or 
provide cooperate in the examination of transfer of a market segment. 
 
Rule307.  Preliminary Application for Transfer of Market Segment 
1. An entity that intends to make an application for transfer of a market segment may 
make a preliminary application (hereinafter referred to as the "preliminary 
application for transfer of market segment") by submitting a "Preliminary 
Application for Transfer of Market Segment" that contains such matters as the day 
of intention to make an application for transfer of market segment, and documents 
prepared in a manner equivalent to the documents necessary for an application for 
transfer of market segment (it shall suffice to prepare those that can be submitted).  
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding 
rule, "the date when the application for transfer of market segment is made pursuant 
to the provisions of Paragraph 1" shall be "the date when the preliminary 
application for transfer of market segment is made pursuant to provisions of 
Paragraph 1 of the following rule", and "said application for transfer of market 
segment" shall be "said preliminary application for transfer of market segment and 
any application for transfer of market segment which has been made within one (1) 
year counting from the date of said preliminary application for transfer of market 
segment". 
3. In the case where a preliminary application for transfer of a market segment is made 
pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the Exchange shall examine whether the 
applicant is expected to satisfy the provisions of the following rule. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
42 
4. The provisions of Paragraph 7 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to cases of examinations in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 308.  Examination of Transfer of Market Segment 
1.  The provisions of Rule 205 (excluding Items (5) and (7)), Rule 206 (excluding Paragraph 
2, Item (2)), and Rule 207, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to the cases where an application for transfer of a market segment to the Standard Market 
is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 306. In this case, "where a stock, etc. pertaining 
to an initial listing applicant is listed on any other financial instruments exchange in Japan, 
such stock, etc. shall not fall under the following (a) nor (b)" in Rules 205, Item (6) shall 
be reworded as "such stock, etc. shall not fall under the following (a) nor (b)". 
2.  The provisions of Rule 211 (excluding Rule 205, Item (7) as applied pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 211, Item (6)), Rule 212 and Rule 213, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 5, 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the cases where an application for transfer of a market 
segment to the Prime Market is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 306. In this case, 
"where a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any other financial 
instruments exchange in Japan, such stock, etc. shall not fall under the following (a) nor 
(b)" in Rules 205, Item (6) as applied pursuant to Rule 211, Item (6) shall be "such stock, 
etc. shall not fall under the following (a) nor (b)".  
3. The provisions of Rule 217 (excluding Item (6)), Rule 218 and Rule 219, Paragraph 1 and 
Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the cases where an application for transfer 
of a market segment to the Growth Market is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 306. 
In this case, "where a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing applicant is listed on any 
other financial instruments exchange in Japan, such stock, etc. shall not fall under the 
following (a) nor (b)" in Rules 217, Item (5) shall be "such stock, etc. shall not fall under 
the following (a) nor (b)". 
4.  Examination of matters referred to in each item of Rule 207, Paragraph 1, each item of 
Rule 213 Paragraph 1 or each item of Rule 219, Paragraph 1 which is applied mutatis 
mutandis in Paragraphs 1 through the preceding paragraph shall be carried out on the basis 
of the documents submitted by an applicant for transfer of a market segment pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 306 and questions, etc. 
5.  Examination of matters referred to in each item of Rule 207, Paragraph 1, each item of 
Rule 213, Paragraph 1 or each item of Rule 219, Paragraph 1 which is applied mutatis 
mutandis in Paragraphs 1 through 3 (excluding examinations pertaining to stocks, etc. 
specified by the Enforcement Rules) shall be aimed at being completed within the period 
specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
6.  Necessary matters concerning examination provided in Paragraph 4 shall be prescribed by 
the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
7.  Where the Exchange deems transfer of a market segment of a stock, etc. pertaining to 
application for transfer of a market segment is appropriate by the examination provided in 
Paragraph 4, the Exchange shall transfer the market segment as to all the listed stocks, etc. 
and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by such an issuer. 
8.  Where the Exchange transfers a market segment pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, the Exchange shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger 
on the transfer day. 
 
Rule 309.  Transfer of Market Segments in Cases of Absorption-type Mergers, etc. 
1. Where a Standard Market-listed company carries out an absorption-type merger of a 
company listed on another market segment, or an act specified by the Enforcement Rules as 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
43 
an act similar to this, and where the Exchange deems such a Standard Market-listed company 
is not a substantial surviving company as specified by the Enforcement Rules, the Exchange 
shall transfer the market segment of all the listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. 
issued by such a company from the Standard Market to a market segment where the 
substantial surviving company was listed effective on a day specified by the Exchange (in 
the event that such listed company desires examination pertaining to transfer of a market 
segment in cases of an absorption-type merger, etc., when such a listed company fails to meet 
the criteria specified in the Enforcement Rules within three years). Details of such cases are 
specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
2. Where a Prime Market-listed company carries out an absorption-type merger of a company 
listed on another market segment, or an act specified by the Enforcement Rules as an act 
similar to this, and where the Exchange deems such a Prime Market-listed company is not a 
substantial surviving company, the Exchange shall transfer the market segment of all the 
listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by such a company from the Prime 
Market to a market segment where the substantial surviving company was listed effective on 
a day specified by the Exchange (in the event that such listed company desires examination 
relating to transfer of the market segment in the case of an absorption-type merger, when 
such a listed company fails to meet the criteria specified in the Enforcement Rules within 
three years). Details of such cases are specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
3. Where a Growth Market-listed company carries out an absorption-type merger of a company 
listed on another market segment, or an act specified by the Enforcement Rules as an act 
similar to this, and where the Exchange deems such a Growth Market-listed company is not 
a substantial surviving company, the Exchange shall transfer the market segment of all the 
listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by such a company from the Growth 
Market to a market segment where the substantial surviving company was listed effective on 
a day specified by the Exchange (in the event that such a listed company desires examination 
relating to transfer of the market segment in the case of an absorption-type merger, when 
such a listed company fails to  meet the criteria specified  in the Enforcement Rules within 
three years). Details of such cases are specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
4. In the case where a company is listed pursuant to provisions for technical listing 
 (limited to cases where a consolidation-type merger, share transfer, or incorporation-type 
company split is conducted, as the party concerned, by a company listed on a different market 
segment, and the Exchange deems that the listed company on the market segment on which 
such a company is listed is not a substantially surviving company), and when it fails to meet 
the criteria specified in the Enforcement Rules within three years, the Exchange shall transfer 
the market segment of all the listed stock, etc. and listed preferred stocks issued by such a 
company from the market segment on which such a company is listed to the market segment 
where the substantial surviving company was listed. Details of such cases are specified in 
the Enforcement Rules. 
5. The provisions of Rule 308, Paragraph 7 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases of each 
of the preceding paragraphs. 
 
Rule 310.  Application for Examination relating to Transfer of Market Segments in Cases 
of Absorption-type Mergers, etc. 
1. The Exchange shall conduct examinations, as prescribed in Paragraphs 2 through 4 of the 
preceding rule, on whether a listed company meets the criteria specified in the Enforcement 
Rules based on an application from such a listed company. If such an application has not 
been made (including cases where it is clear that such an application will not be made), the 
Exchange shall deem that the listed company falls under each of Paragraphs 2 through 4 of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
44 
the preceding rule. 
2. The provisions of Rule 306, Paragraphs 4 through 6 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a listed company makes an application pursuant to the preceding paragraph. 
3. The Exchange may request a listed company to submit a report or materials which should 
serve as useful reference or provide any other cooperation for such examination if the 
Exchange deems it necessary for examinations provided in Paragraph 1. 
 
Section 3 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
 
 
Rule 311.  Special Provisions on Cases where a Listed Company making an 
Application for Transfer of Market Segments is scheduled to implement 
a Merger, etc. on or before such day of Transfer of Market Segments 
1. In the case where a listed company is scheduled to conduct an act referred to in any 
of the following items, the listed company may make an application for transfer of 
the market segment of stocks, etc. issued by an entity specified in each item in 
accordance with the classification of acts referred to in such item. In this case, matters 
necessary for procedures regarding application for transfer of a market segment and 
application of other provisions shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Merger in which the company will be dissolved on or before the day of transfer of 
market segment 
      The newly created company or the surviving company, or the parent company 
of the surviving company pertaining to the merger (limited to cases where stocks, 
etc. issued by such a company will be delivered at the time of such merger.) 
(2) Share exchange or share transfer in which the company will become a wholly-
owned subsidiary of another company on or before the day of transfer of a market 
segment 
      Such other company or parent company of such other company (limited to 
cases where stocks, etc. issued by such a company will be delivered at the time of 
such share exchange or share transfer.) 
2. With regard to the application of the provisions of Rule 306, Paragraph 2 to a listed 
company which makes an application for transfer of a market segment pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, "all the listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred 
stocks, etc. issued by such an applicant for transfer of a market " in the same paragraph 
shall be "all the listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. pertaining to such 
an application for transfer of a market segment". 
3. The provisions of Rule 306, Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases 
where an application for transfer of market segment is made pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 1. In this case, "application pursuant to Paragraph 1" in Rule 
306, Paragraph 3 shall be "application for transfer of market segment pursuant to 
Rule 311, Paragraph 1". 
4. In the case of applying for transfer of a market segment pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 1, other than the documents prescribed in Rule 306, Paragraphs 4 through 
6, documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be submitted by a date 
specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
5. With regard to the application of the provisions of Rule 308, Paragraph 1 to a listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
45 
company which makes an application for transfer of a market segment to the Standard 
Market pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, "Rule 205" in the same paragraph 
shall be "Rule 205 applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of Rule 223, 
Paragraph 5", and "Rule 206" shall be "Rule 206 applied with rewording pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 223, Paragraph 6". 
6. With regard to the application of the provisions of Rule 308, Paragraph 2 to a listed 
company which makes an application for transfer of a market segment to the Prime 
Market pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, "Rule 211" in the same paragraph 
shall be "Rule 211 applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of Rule 224, 
Paragraph 5", and "Rule 212" shall be "Rule 212 applied with rewording pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 224, Paragraph 6". 
7. With regard to the application of the provisions of Rule 308, Paragraph 3 to a listed 
company which makes an application for transfer of a market segment to the Growth 
Market pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, "Rule 217" in the same paragraph 
shall be "Rule 217 applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of Rule 225, 
Paragraph 5" 
 
 
Chapter 4 
Listing Supervision 
 
Section 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 401.  Faithful Execution of Business, etc. 
A listed company shall make efforts to carry out such faithful execution of business as 
strengthening prompt, accurate and fair disclosure of corporate information at all times from 
the viewpoint of investors with full recognition that timely and appropriate disclosure of 
corporate information to investors is the basis of a sound market for financial instruments. 
 
Section 2 
Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information, etc. 
 
Rule 402.  Disclosure of Corporate Information 
Where a listed company falls under any of the following items (excluding those which the 
Exchange deems as matters whose impact on investors’ investment decisions is of minor 
significance, such as cases which fall under the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules), 
the listed company must disclose details immediately pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where a body which decides a listed company’s business execution has decided to carry 
out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through at. (including cases where it 
has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision): 
 a. An offering of shares issued by a stock company or treasury shares to be disposed of by 
the stock company prescribed in Article 199, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act to entities 
that will subscribe for such shares (including an offering provided by foreign laws and 
regulations corresponding thereto (limited to cases where the company is a listed foreign 
company; the same shall apply hereinafter) in cases of an offering of treasury shares to be 
disposed of to entities who will subscribe for such shares), an offering of entities who will 
subscribe for offered subscription warrants prescribed in Article 238, Paragraph 1 of the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
46 
same Act (including an offering of entities who will subscribe for own subscription 
warrants to be disposed), or a secondary distribution of shares or subscription warrants; 
 b. Shelf-registration (including its withdrawal) pertaining to offering or secondary 
distribution prescribed in the preceding a. or commencement of a demand survey for such 
offering or secondary distribution pertaining to such shelf-registration; 
 c. Decrease in amount of capital; 
 d. Decrease in amount of capital reserve or profit reserve; 
 e. Acquisition of own shares pursuant to the provisions of Article 156, Paragraph 1 of the 
Companies Act (including cases where the provisions apply by replacing terms pursuant 
to the provisions of Rule 163 and Rule 165, Paragraph 3 of the same Act) or the provisions 
of foreign laws and regulations corresponding thereto; 
 f. A gratis allotment of shares or gratis allotment of subscription warrants; 
 f-2. Shelf registration pertaining to gratis allotment of subscription warrants in the preceding 
f. (including cancellation of such registration), or commencement of surveys on demand 
or expected exercise of rights for the gratis allotment of subscription warrants pertaining 
to such registration 
 g. Share split or share consolidation; 
 h. Dividend from surplus; 
 i. Share exchange; 
 j. Share transfer; 
 j-2 Share delivery; 
 k. Merger; 
 l. Company split; 
 m. Transfer or acquisition of all or part of the business; 
 n. Dissolution (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
 o. Commercialization of a new product or new technology; 
 p. Business alliance or dissolution of business alliance; 
 q. Transfer or acquisition of shares or equity interest accompanied by change in a subsidiary, 
etc. (meaning a subsidiary prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 5 of the Act, and in cases 
of a listed foreign company (limited to an entity deemed necessary by the Exchange), its 
subsidiary, affiliated company or other entities deemed necessary by the Exchange; the 
same shall apply hereinafter) or other matters accompanied by change in a subsidiary, etc.; 
 r. Transfer or acquisition of fixed assets (meaning fixed assets referred to in Article 2, Item 
(22) of the Corporation Tax Act (Act No. 34 of 1965); the same shall apply hereinafter); 
 s. Lease of fixed assets; 
 t. Suspension or abolition of all or part of the business; 
 u. Application for delisting or withdrawal of registration of a stock, etc. to a domestic 
financial instruments exchange or a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
 v. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings; 
 w. Commencement of a new business (including commercialization of sales of new products 
or provision of new services; the same shall apply hereinafter); 
 x. A takeover bid prescribed in Article 27-2, Paragraph 1 of the Act with respect to a stock, 
etc. prescribed in the same paragraph (limited to cases where the provisions of the main 
clause in the same paragraph apply) or a takeover bid prescribed in Article 27-22-2, 
Paragraph 1 of the Act with respect to a listed stock, etc. prescribed in Article 24-6, 
Paragraph 1 of the Act; 
 y. Request for a bid or any other onerous acquisition to compete with a takeover bid 
prescribed in the first sentence of the preceding x. pertaining to a stock, etc. prescribed in 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
47 
Article 27-2, Paragraph 1 of the Act whose issuer is such listed company or an act to collect 
a stock, etc. as prescribed in Article 31 of the Enforcement Order pertaining to such stock, 
etc. (hereinafter referred to as a "takeover bid, etc." in this y.) or an announcement of an 
opinion or a representation to shareholders concerning a takeover bid, etc.; 
 z. Deleted. 
 aa. Change in representative directors or representative executive officers; 
 ab. Rationalization such as personnel reduction; 
 ac. Change in trade name or corporate name; 
 ad. Change in the number of shares constituting one unit or abolition or introduction of the 
provisions for the number of shares constituting one unit; 
 ae. Change in the end date of the business year; 
 af. Petition pursuant to the provisions of Article 74, Paragraph 5 of the Deposit Insurance Act 
(Act No. 34 of 1971); 
  ag. Petition for mediation in accordance with specified mediation procedures on the basis of 
the Act on Specified Mediation for Promoting Adjustment of Specified Liabilities, etc. 
(Act No. 158 of 1999); 
  ah. Early redemption of all or part of a listed bond, listed convertible bond or listed 
exchangeable corporate bond or convocation of a bondholders meeting and any other 
important matters relating to rights concerning a listed bond, listed convertible bond or a 
listed exchangeable corporate bond; 
  ai. Matters accompanied by an increase in the total number of units of ordinary equity 
contributions; 
  aj. Change in certified public accountants, etc. who prepare audit certification, etc. of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports; 
  ak. Putting notes on matters relating to the going concern assumption in financial statements, 
etc., interim financial statements, etc. or quarterly financial statements, etc. prescribed in 
Rule 404, Paragraph 2; 
  ak-2. Submission of application for approval prescribed in Article 15-2, Paragraph 1, Article 
15-2-2, Paragraph 1, Article 17-4, Paragraph 1, or Article 18-2, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet 
Office Order on Disclosure pursuant to the provisions of such paragraphs (excluding 
submission by a listed foreign company (limited to cases where its stocks, etc. are listed 
on multiple markets) pursuant to laws and regulations or practices in its home country); 
al. That shareholder services will not be entrusted to a shareholder services agent approved 
by the Exchange; 
  am. Submission of internal control reports containing content to the effect that there is a 
material deficiency in the internal control system that should be disclosed or that the 
evaluation result of the internal control system cannot be stated; 
an. Amendment to the articles of incorporation; 
  ao. Change in contents and other schemes of a listed share without voting rights, a listed 
share with voting rights (limited to such stock issued by a company which issues multiple 
classes of shares with voting rights), or a listed preferred stock, etc. (excluding a stock 
whose dividends are linked to a subsidiary); or 
ap. Acquisition of all shares of a classified share with a whole acquisition clause (meaning 
classified stock with a whole acquisition clause prescribed in Article 171, Paragraph 1 of 
the Companies Act; the same shall apply hereinafter); 
aq.  Approval or disapproval of demand for share, etc. cash-out (meaning demand for share, 
etc. cash-out prescribed in Article 179-3, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act; the same shall 
apply hereinafter);  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
48 
ar. Conclusion of a monetary loan agreement with financial covenants (excluding agreements 
concluded with a consolidated subsidiary; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule. 
Including cases where financial covenants are newly added to a monetary loan agreement 
that has already been concluded) or issuance of a corporate bond with financial covenants 
(excluding corporate bonds issued to a consolidated subsidiary; the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this rule. Including cases where financial covenants are newly added to a 
corporate bond that has already been issued); 
as. Change of a settlement deadline for a monetary loan agreement with financial covenants, 
change of a redemption date for a corporate bond with financial covenants, or change to 
the details of such financial covenants; or 
at.  In addition to the matters referred to in a. through the preceding as., important matters 
related to operation, business or assets of such listed company or such listed stock, etc. 
which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through x. occurs: 
 a. Damage arising from a disaster or damage which occurs in the course of business 
execution; 
 b. Change in major shareholders (meaning major shareholders as prescribed in Article 163, 
Paragraph 1 of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter) or the largest shareholder 
(meaning, out of the major shareholders, the shareholder with the largest number of shares 
(including the shares held in the name of another entity (including a hypothetical entity) 
but excluding the entities specified by the Cabinet Office Order on Regulations of 
Securities Transactions, etc. (Cabinet Office Order No.59 of 2007; hereinafter referred to 
as the "Cabinet Office Order on Transactions Regulations") in consideration of the mode 
of the possession of shares as prescribed in the same paragraph and other circumstances; 
the same shall apply hereinafter)); 
 c. A fact which causes the delisting of a specified security (meaning a specified security 
prescribed in Article 163, Paragraph 1 of the Act; the same shall apply in this c.) or options 
pertaining to a specified security; 
 d. Filing of a lawsuit pertaining to property rights, issuance of a judgment on such a lawsuit 
by a court, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial decision; 
 e. Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of a business 
or any other disciplinary actions equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a petition, or 
completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition without a judicial 
decision; 
 f. Cancellation of a license, suspension of a business or any other disciplinary action 
equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency on the basis of laws and 
regulations, or an accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations by an 
administrative agency; 
 g. Change in controlling shareholders or other related companies; 
 h. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings, or execution of enterprise mortgage by an entity other than 
such listed company such as a creditor (hereinafter referred to as "petition for 
commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, etc."); 
 i. Dishonor of a bill or a check (limited to where the reason is a shortage of funds to be paid) 
or suspension of trading by a clearing house (hereinafter referred to as "dishonor, etc."); 
j. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to a parent company, 
etc.; 
 k. As a result of a dishonor, etc., a petition for commencement of bankruptcy procedures, etc., 
or a fact equivalent to these having occurred with respect to a debtor or a main debtor with 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
49 
guarantee obligations, there is a possibility of default on accounts receivable, loans, or 
other receivables from said debtor or on the right to obtain reimbursement against such 
main debtor on exercising such guarantee obligations; 
 l. Suspension of trade with a main business partner (meaning a business partner with more 
than 10% of the total sales or of the total purchase amount in the previous business year; 
the same shall apply hereinafter) or suspension of trade with two or more business partners 
for the same reason or in the same period; 
 m. Exemption of obligations or extension of a repayment deadline (limited to an extension 
that the Exchange deems equivalent to exemption of obligations) by a creditor, or 
assumption or fulfillment of obligations by a third party; 
 n. Discovery of resources; 
n-2. Where a special controlling shareholder (meaning a special controlling shareholder 
prescribed in Article 179, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act; the same shall apply 
hereinafter) (where this is a corporation, the body that decides its business execution) has 
decided to make a demand for share, etc. cash-out pertaining to said listed company, or 
has decided not to make a demand for share, etc. cash-out pertaining to said decision 
(limited to cases where such decision was made public as prescribed in Article 166, 
Paragraph 4 of the Act) 
o. Claim for suspension of issue of a share or a subscription warrant or disposition of treasury 
shares by shareholders; 
 p. Demand for convocation of a general shareholders meeting by shareholders; 
 q. Market value (an amount of value calculated on the basis of the closing prices of a financial 
instruments exchange on the relevant day; where no such closing prices are available, the 
most recent available closing prices of a financial instruments exchange) of all or part of 
the securities held (limited to securities listed on a domestic financial instruments 
exchange other than a share of a subsidiary, etc. of such listed company) falls below book 
values as of the end of a business year, an interim accounting period or a quarterly 
accounting period (excluding the second quarter accounting period). Limited to where 
such listed company adopts cost method as an evaluation method of securities; 
 r. Acceleration of obligations pertaining to a corporate bond; 
 r-2. A failure to meet a condition specified in the financial covenants of a monetary loan 
agreement; 
 s. Convocation of a meeting of bondholders for a listed bond, listed convertible bond or listed 
exchangeable corporate bond and other important facts pertaining to rights of a listed bond, 
listed convertible bond or listed exchangeable corporate bond; 
 t. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification, etc. of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body of a listed 
company which decides its business execution has decided to change certified public 
accountants, etc. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining 
to said decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding item); 
 u. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached audit 
report, interim audit report or interim review report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 in 
the Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm (including audit reports, interim audit reports or interim 
review reports with certification equivalent to audit certification prepared by an entity 
equivalent to certified public accountants or an audit firm) is not expected to be submitted 
to the Prime Minister, etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 of the Act 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
50 
or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act (excluding cases where disclosure is conducted for 
the matter referred to in ak-2. of the preceding item pursuant to the provision of the same 
item) or has not been submitted within such period (excluding cases where the company 
has disclosed that such report is not expected to be submitted within such period), or was 
submitted after such disclosure had been made; 
u-2. Obtaining, or failure to obtain, approval prescribed in Article 15-2, Paragraph 3, Article 
15-2-2, Paragraph 4, Article 17-4, Paragraph 4, or Article 18-2, Paragraph 4; 
v. That an audit report attached to financial statements, etc., an interim audit report or interim 
review report attached to interim financial statements, etc., or an interim review report 
attached to quarterly financial statements, etc. prescribed in Rule 404, Paragraph 2 has 
come to contain a statement of "qualified opinion with exceptions" or "qualified 
conclusion with exceptions" stated by certified public accountants, etc. with issues 
concerning the going concern assumption as the exceptions, or an "adverse opinion", an 
"opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. do not present useful information",  
"adverse conclusion", "disclaimer of opinion" or "disclaimer of conclusion" stated by 
certified public accountants, etc.; 
v-2. An internal control audit report regarding an internal control report has come to contain 
an "adverse opinion" or a "disclaimer of opinion"; 
w. A notice of canceling a shareholder services agent agreement is received, an issuer is 
unlikely to entrust shareholder services to a shareholder services agent approved by the 
Exchange, or an issuer has decided that it will not entrust shareholder services to a 
shareholder services agent approved by the Exchange; or 
x. Other than the facts referred to in a. through the preceding w., facts relating to operation, 
administration or assets of a listed company, or important matters related to a listed stock, 
etc. that have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
 
Rule 403.  Disclosure of Information of Subsidiaries, etc. 
A listed company shall disclose details immediately pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules, where its subsidiary, etc. falls under any of the following items (excluding 
those which the Exchange deems as matters whose effect on investors’ investment decisions is 
of minor significance, such as facts which fall under the criteria specified by the Enforcement 
Rules with regard to the matters referred to in Item (1) and facts referred to in Item (2), and 
those that meet criteria prescribed by the Cabinet Office Order on Transactions Regulations as 
matters which have an effect of minor significance on investors’ investment decisions with 
regard to the matters referred to in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (5) of the Act as prescribed 
in Item (3), a., and the facts referred to in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (6) as prescribed in 
Item (3), b.: 
(1) Where a body which decides business execution of a subsidiary, etc. of a listed company 
has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through u. with 
respect to such subsidiary, etc. (including where it has decided not to carry out matters 
pertaining to such decision): 
 a. Share exchange; 
 b. Share transfer; 
 b-2. Share delivery; 
 c. Merger; 
 d. Company split; 
 e. Transfer or acquisition of all or part of the business; 
 f. Dissolution (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
 g. Commercialization of a new product or new technology; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
51 
 h. Business alliance or dissolution of business alliance; 
 i. Transfer or acquisition of shares or equity interest accompanied by change in a sub-
subsidiary (meaning a sub-subsidiary prescribed in Article 29, Item (2) of the Enforcement 
Order, and meaning a subsidiary, etc. of the subsidiary, etc. of a listed foreign company 
(limited to an entity deemed necessary by the Exchange); the same shall apply hereinafter.), 
or matters accompanied by change in a sub-subsidiary; 
 j. Transfer or acquisition of fixed assets; 
 k. Lease of fixed assets; 
 l. Suspension or abolition of all or part of the business; 
 m. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings; 
 n. Commencement of a new business; 
 o. A takeover bid prescribed in Article 27-2, Paragraph 1 of the Act with respect to a stock, etc. 
as prescribed in the same paragraph (limited to cases where the provisions of the main clause 
in the same paragraph apply) or a takeover bid prescribed in Article 27-22-2, Paragraph 1 
of the Act with respect to a stock, etc. as prescribed in Article 24-6, Paragraph 1 of the Act; 
 p. Change in trade name or corporate name; 
 q. Petition pursuant to the provisions of Article 74, Paragraph 5 of the Deposit Insurance Act; 
 r. Petition for mediation in accordance with specified mediation procedures on the basis of the 
Act on Specified Mediation for Promoting Adjustment of Specified Liabilities, etc.; 
 s. Conclusion of a monetary loan agreement with financial covenants (excluding agreements 
concluded with said listed company or another consolidated subsidiary; the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this rule. Including cases where financial covenants are newly added to a 
monetary loan agreement that has already been concluded) or issuance of a corporate bond 
with financial covenants (excluding corporate bonds issued to said listed company or 
another consolidated subsidiary; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule. Including 
cases where financial covenants are newly added to a corporate bond that has already been 
issued);  
 t. Change of a settlement deadline for a monetary loan agreement with financial covenants, 
change of a redemption date for a corporate bond with financial covenants, or change to the 
details of such financial covenants; or 
 u. Other than the matters referred to in a. through the preceding t., important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a subsidiary of such listed company which have a 
significant impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through n. has occurred to a subsidiary, 
etc. of a listed company: 
 a. Damage arising from a disaster or damage which occurs in the course of business execution; 
 b. Filing of a lawsuit pertaining to property rights, issuance of a judgment on such a lawsuit 
by a court, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial decision; 
c. Filing of a petition for a provisional order that seeks suspension of a business or any other 
disciplinary actions equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a petition, or completion of 
procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition without a judicial decision; 
d. Cancellation of a license, suspension of a business or any other disciplinary action 
equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency on the basis of laws and regulations, 
or an accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations by an administrative agency; 
 e. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, etc. by an entity other than such 
subsidiary, etc. such as a creditor; 
 f. Dishonor, etc.; 
 g. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, etc. pertaining to a sub-subsidiary; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
52 
h. As a result of a dishonor, etc., a petition for commencement of bankruptcy procedures, etc., 
or a fact equivalent to these having occurred with respect to a debtor or a main debtor with 
guarantee obligations, there is a possibility of default on accounts receivable, loans, or other 
receivables from said debtor or on the right to obtain reimbursement against such main 
debtor on exercising such guarantee obligations; 
i. Suspension of trade with a main business partner or suspension of trade with two or more 
business partners for the same reason or in the same period; 
j. Exemption of obligations or extension of a repayment deadline (limited to an extension that 
the Exchange deems equivalent to exemption of obligations) by a creditor, or assumption or 
fulfillment of obligations by a third party; 
 k. Discovery of resources; l. Acceleration of obligations pertaining to a corporate bond; 
m. A failure to meet a condition specified in the financial covenants of a monetary loan 
agreement; or 
 n. Other than the facts referred to in a. through the preceding m., important facts relating to 
operation, administration or assets of such subsidiary which have a significant impact on 
investors’ investment decisions; or 
(3) Where a listed company owns a linked subsidiary (meaning a linked subsidiary as 
prescribed in Article 49, Item (11) of Cabinet Office Order on Transactions Regulations; the 
same shall apply in this item and in Rule 405, Paragraph 3), in addition to the preceding 
two items, in cases of such linked subsidiary falling under the following a. or b.: 
 a. Where a body which decides the business execution of a linked subsidiary has decided to 
carry out any of the matters referred to in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (5), (i) through 
(viii) of the Act with respect to such linked subsidiary (including cases where it has decided 
not to carry out matters pertaining to such decision); or 
 b. Where a fact referred to in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (6), (i) or (ii) of the Act has 
occurred to a linked subsidiary. 
 
Rule 404.  Earnings Reports (Kessan Tanshin), etc. 
1. Where details of the financial results for a business year or an interim accounting period, or 
a consolidated accounting year or an interim consolidated accounting period are settled, a 
listed company must disclose such details immediately. 
2. In addition to cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, a listed company shall settle the 
details of the financial results for cumulative quarterly accounting periods (excluding the 
second cumulative quarterly accounting period) or cumulative quarterly consolidated 
accounting periods (excluding the second cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting 
period), and once the details are settled, the listed company shall disclose such details 
immediately. In this case, such financial results details shall include quarterly financial 
statements, etc. which are prepared as specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
3. Where a listed company (excluding a listed foreign company of which an interim audit report 
or interim review report issued by  public certified accountants, etc. is not required to be 
attached to interim financial statements, etc. included in the semiannual securities report; the 
same shall apply hereinafter) falls under cases specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall 
undergo an interim review performed by certified public accountants, etc. for quarterly 
financial statements, etc. prescribed in the preceding paragraph at some point during the 
period from the day it begins to falls under said cases to the day when it ceases to fall under 
said cases. 
4. In cases where a listed company has undergone an interim review by certified public 
accountants, etc. for quarterly financial statements, etc. prescribed in Paragraph 2, it shall 
attach an interim review report prepared by said certified public accountants, etc. as specified 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
53 
in the Enforcement Rules and carry out the disclosure specified in the same paragraph. 
 
Rule 405.  Amendment to Forecast Value, etc. 
1. Where there occurs a difference (limited to those falling under the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as matters which have a material impact on investors’ investment 
decisions) in forecast value newly calculated by a listed company or financial results for a 
consolidated accounting year compared to the last published forecast value (where there is 
no such value, published actual value for the previous consolidated accounting year) with 
respect to sales, operating profits, ordinary profits or net income (in the case of a listed 
company which is a company that voluntarily adopts IFRS, meaning sales, operating profits, 
profits before taxes, net income or net income belonging to the owner(s) of the parent 
company) of a business group to which such listed company belongs, such listed company 
shall disclose details of such difference immediately.  
2. Where a forecast value of a dividend from surplus of a listed company is calculated, such 
listed company shall disclose details of such value immediately.  
3. Where a fact referred to in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the Act (excluding cases 
prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs) or a fact referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (7) of 
the same article occurs, such listed company must disclose details of such fact immediately.  
4. Regarding the application of the provisions of Paragraph 1 to companies which should not 
prepare consolidated financial statements, "a business group to which such listed company 
belongs" shall be "such listed company", and "consolidated accounting year" shall be 
"business year". 
 
Rule 406.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 407.  Disclosure of Information by Listed Foreign Companies  
1. In addition to Rules 402 through 405, where any of the following facts referred to in each of 
the following items occurs, a listed foreign company shall disclose its details immediately 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Changes in laws and regulations, etc. of the home country concerning the company system 
which have a material impact on the shareholders (including holders of a listed foreign 
stock depositary receipt, etc.) or the company’s business performance; and 
(2) A fact which occurs in a foreign country that has a material impact on the circulation of a 
listed foreign stock, etc. or a foreign stock depositary receipt, etc. which represents a right 
pertaining to a listed foreign stock, etc. 
2. In addition to Rules 402 through 405 and the preceding paragraph, where an issuer of a listed 
foreign stock depositary receipt, etc. has made a decision on change in or termination of a 
deposit agreement, etc. prescribed in Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Item (4) or any other agreement. 
or other matters which have a material impact on a right, etc. related to the listed foreign 
stock depositary receipt, etc., or where a fact which has a material impact on such right, etc. 
has emerged, the issuer shall disclose details immediately pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 408.  Disclosure of Plan to Meet Continued Listing Criteria. 
In cases where a listed company submits to the Exchange a written document specified in Rule 
501, Paragraphs 3 through 5(including cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 715) and Rule 
502, Paragraphs 3 through 5, it shall disclose such a document immediately. 
 
Rule 408-2. Disclosure of Matters Relating to Business Plans and Growth Potential 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
54 
A Growth Market-listed company shall disclose the matters relating to business plans and 
growth potentials at least once a business year. Details in this case shall be prescribed by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 408-3. Disclosure of Status of Development and Implementation of Internal 
Management System and Related Matters 
1. If a listed company is an issuer of a listed stock, etc. which has been designated as a Security 
on Special Alert pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 1, said company must 
disclose the status of the development and implementation of its internal management 
system and related matters promptly after one year has elapsed since the designation. 
2. If a listed company is an issuer of a listed stock, etc. that has had its designation as a Security 
on Special Alert extended pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 4, Item 2, 
Paragraph 7, Item 2, or Paragraph 10, Item 1, b., said company must disclose the status of 
the development and implementation of its internal management system and related matters 
within three months counting from the last day of the business year containing the day on 
which the Exchange decided to extend the designation (if the period between the day of the 
decision and the end of the business year is less than three months, within three months from 
both the end of the business year and the end of the next business year). 
 
Rule 409.  Disclosure of Lowering Investment Units 
Where the price specified by the Enforcement Rules as the latest investment unit (meaning the 
price per unit; the same shall apply hereinafter.) of a listed domestic stock is JPY 500,000 or 
more, the listed domestic company shall disclose its view and policy, etc. concerning an 
investment unit of such an issuer in order to shift to a level prescribed in Rule 445 within three 
months after the end of the business year.  
 
Rule 409-2.  Disclosure of the Status of Membership in the Financial Accounting    
Standards Foundation 
The listed domestic company must disclose, within three months from the end of its business 
year, whether or not it is a member of the Financial Accounting Standards Foundation as of the 
end of such business year (including, if it has not yet obtained membership in such Foundation, 
a view on obtaining membership in or after the following business year); provided, however, 
that the same  shall not apply to the cases when the Enforcement Rules specify  otherwise. 
 
Rule 410.  Disclosure of the Status of Conversion or Exercise of MSCB, etc. 
1. Where a listed company issues a security which is specified by the Enforcement Rules 
(hereinafter referred to as "CB, etc."), and to which is attached issuance conditions specified 
by the Enforcement Rules (hereinafter referred to as "MSCB, etc."), it shall disclose the 
status of conversion or exercise of MSCB, etc. in the preceding month at the beginning of a 
month. 
2. Where a listed company issues MSCB, etc. and where the total amount of the cumulative 
conversion or cumulative exercise from the beginning of a month or the cumulative 
conversion or cumulative exercise during the same month after the disclosure exceed 10% 
of the total amount of issue of such MSCB, etc., the listed company shall disclose the status 
of such conversion or exercise immediately.  
3. In cases where transactions, such as derivatives transactions prescribed in Rule 2, Paragraph 
20 of the Act related to securities issued by a listed company, which are inevitably linked to 
a CB, etc. issued by such listed company, as well as where such CB, etc. and such transaction, 
such as derivatives transactions, as a unit, have an effect, equal to an MSCB, etc., such CB, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
55 
etc. and such transactions, such as derivatives transactions, as a unit shall be deemed an 
MSCB, etc. and the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall be applied. 
 
Rule 411.  Disclosure of Matters Relating to Controlling Shareholder, etc. 
1.  A listed company which has a controlling shareholder or other related company must 
disclose matters relating to a controlling shareholder, etc. specified by the Enforcement 
Rules within three months after the end of a business year. 
2.  In the event that a listed company has a parent company, etc. (see Note below), when details 
of the financial results of a business year or interim accounting period (meaning a 
cumulative quarterly period in cases where said parent company, etc. is a company which 
submits quarterly financial statements; the same shall apply in the next paragraph) or a 
consolidated accounting year or consolidated interim accounting period (meaning a 
cumulative consolidated quarterly period in cases where said parent company, etc. is a 
company which submits quarterly consolidated financial statements; the same shall apply 
in the next paragraph) of said parent company, etc. are fixed, the listed company must 
disclose them immediately. 
 
(Note) "Parent company, etc." shall be limited to companies. If there are multiple parent 
companies, etc., it refers to the company which has the largest influence on the 
listed company. If such multiple parent companies, etc. are deemed to have an 
equal influence, it refers to any one of them. 
 
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, a listed company shall not be 
required to make disclosure prescribed in said paragraph in cases referred to in each of the 
following items; provided, however, that this shall not apply where any of Items (2) through 
(4) is met and the listed company has pledged in writing to the Exchange to carry out 
appropriate disclosure of facts, etc. concerning said parent company, etc. which has a 
material impact on the management of the listed company. 
(1)  Where said parent company, etc. is an issuer of stocks, etc. listed on any domestic financial 
instruments exchange; 
(2)  Where said parent company, etc. is an issuer of stocks, etc. listed on or continuously traded 
at any foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
(3)  Where said parent company, etc. has little relationship with the listed company in terms 
of business, and the Exchange deems that the listed company has difficulties in grasping 
details of the financial results pertaining to the business year or interim accounting period 
or a consolidated accounting year or consolidated interim accounting period of said parent 
company, etc.; or 
(4)  Where said parent company, etc. is any other entity deemed appropriate by the Exchange. 
  
Rule 411-2.  Implementation of Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate 
Information 
The provisions of this section state the minimum requirements, methods, etc. that a listed 
company should observe with respect to timely disclosure of corporate information, etc., and a 
listed company shall not use the provisions of the same section as an excuse for failures to 
disclose corporate information in a more timely and appropriate manner. 
 
Rule 412.  Examination, etc. of Disclosure of Corporate Information 
1.  Where a listed company carries out disclosure of corporate information pursuant to the 
provisions of this section, it shall observe the matters provided in the following items: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
56 
(1) The information to be disclosed is not false; 
(2) The information to be disclosed is not lacking information deemed to be significant to 
investors’ investment decisions; 
(3) The information will not cause misunderstanding regarding investment decisions; and 
(4) In addition to the matters referred to in the preceding three items, the appropriateness 
of disclosure is not lacking. 
2.  The Exchange shall prescribe necessary matters concerning examination of disclosure of 
corporate information which a listed company carries out pursuant to the provisions of this 
section as the Guidelines Concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc. 
 
Rule 413.  Explanation of Corporate Information to the Exchange 
Where a listed company carries out disclosure of corporate information pursuant to the 
provisions of Rules 402 through 411-2, it shall make prior explanation of the details pertaining 
to such disclosure to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 413-2.  Handling of Corporate Information on Listed Company's own Website, etc. 
before Disclosure 
When a listed company intends to make corporate information, which requires to be disclosed 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 402 to Rule 411-2, available for public inspection by use of 
the Internet, it shall make such action after such corporate information is disclosed as specified 
by the following rule; provided, however, that this shall not be applied to cases where the listed 
company takes measures to restrict public inspection on such corporate information, which 
include access control functions (meaning those prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 3 of Act on 
Prohibition of Unauthorized Computer Access (Act No. 128 of 1999)). 
 
Rule 414.  Method of Disclosure of Corporate Information 
1. Disclosure of corporate information on the basis of the provisions of Rules 402 through 411-
2 shall be carried out using TDnet (meaning the timely disclosure information dissemination 
system of the Exchange). 
2. In cases of the preceding paragraph, a listed company shall transmit materials pertaining to 
such disclosure to the Exchange through TDnet. 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, a listed company may submit 
"Written Notice Concerning Public Announcement of Corporate Information" predetermined 
by the Exchange and materials pertaining to such disclosure (hereinafter referred to as 
"Written Public Notice, etc.") to the Exchange instead of transmitting disclosure materials 
through TDnet as prescribed by the same paragraph. In this case, where such listed company 
is an issuer of a security listed on any other domestic financial instruments exchange (limited 
to a financial instruments exchange equipped with TDnet) and where the issuer submits 
written documents deemed appropriate by the Exchange to such financial instruments 
exchange, the issuer shall be deemed to have submitted the Written Public Notice, etc. to the 
Exchange. 
4. A listed company may transmit the Written Public Notice, etc. by facsimile instead of 
submitting the Written Public Notice, etc. as prescribed in the first sentence of the preceding 
paragraph, where the Exchange deems this appropriate. 
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs, where any failure occurs 
to the operation of TDnet or where the Exchange deems necessary, disclosure of corporate 
information on the basis of the provisions of Rules 402 through 411-2 shall be carried out by 
a method prescribed by the Exchange from time to time. 
6. The Exchange may make materials transmitted or submitted by a listed company pursuant to 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
57 
the provisions of Paragraph 2 through the preceding paragraph for public inspection. 
7. Where a listed company notifies the Exchange of a material fact, etc. or the fact of a tender 
offer, etc. pursuant to the provisions of Rule 30, Paragraph 1, Item (2) or of the fact of a 
tender offer, etc. pursuant to the provisions of Item (4) of the same paragraph, such 
notification shall be made in a manner pertaining to corporate information disclosure 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 402 through 411-2. 
8. The provisions of the preceding three rules, Paragraph 6, Paragraph 1 of the following rule, 
and Rule 416, Paragraph 1 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to notices of the fact of a tender 
offer, etc. to the Exchange referred to in the preceding paragraph pursuant to the provisions 
of Article 30, Paragraph 1, Item (4) of the Enforcement Order. 
 
Rule 415.  Report and Disclosure of Reference Matters Pertaining to Corporate 
Information 
1. Where the Exchange makes an inquiry of corporate information of a listed company by 
deeming that it is necessary to do so, such listed company shall make an accurate report on 
an inquiry matter immediately. 
2. A listed company which receives an inquiry pursuant to the provision of the preceding 
paragraph shall conduct the necessary investigations regarding corporate information and 
report the results of the investigation to the Exchange where the Exchange deems it necessary 
for the report pursuant to the same paragraph. 
3. Where the Exchange deems that it is necessary and appropriate to disclose a fact pertaining 
to an inquiry prescribed pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 (including investigation 
results prescribed in the preceding paragraph), a listed company shall disclose said fact 
immediately. 
4. The provisions of the preceding two rules shall be applied mutatis mutandis to disclosure in 
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
5. The provisions of Paragraph 1 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the cases referred to in 
each of the following items. 
(1) Where the Exchange makes an inquiry of a listed stock, etc. by deeming that it is 
necessary for the purpose of trading supervision (including cases where the Exchange 
makes an inquiry of the circumstances, etc. from the occurrence through the public 
announcement of corporate information by deeming that it is necessary for a survey in 
order to ensure fairness of securities trading on the Exchange market); and 
(2) Where another domestic financial instruments exchange requests for provision of 
information concerning a listed company pertaining to information from the occurrence 
through the public announcement of corporate information due to a survey in order to 
ensure fairness of securities trading, etc. in such market, and where the Exchange deems 
it substantial to respond to such request and makes an inquiry of such circumstances, etc. 
 
Rule 416.  Change in or Correction of Disclosure Information 
1. In circumstances where a change or correction should be made to the information disclosed 
pursuant to the provisions from Rules 402 through 411-2 or the provisions of Paragraph 3 of 
the preceding rule, a listed company shall disclose details of such change or correction 
immediately. 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, with respect to disclosure in 
cases where there arises any event that requires a change or correction to the details of the 
financial results disclosed pursuant to the provisions of Rule 404, Paragraph 1 before 
submission of annual securities reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases 
which the Exchange deems as matters whose effect on investors’ investment decisions is of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
58 
significance), it shall be adequate for a listed company to conduct such disclosure without 
delay after submission of such annual securities report or semiannual securities report 
pertaining to such financial results. 
3. In cases where, pursuant to the provision of Paragraph 1, a listed company changes or 
corrects quarterly financial statements, etc. which have been reviewed by a certified public 
accountant, etc. pursuant to the provision of Rule 404, Paragraph 3 and re-prepares quarterly 
financial statements, etc. prescribed in Paragraph 2 of the same rule, it shall undergo an 
interim review by a certified public accountant, etc. for said quarterly financial statements, 
etc., attach the review report prescribed in Paragraph 4 of the same rule and carry out the 
disclosure pursuant to Paragraph 1. 
4. The provisions of Rules 413 and 414 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the disclosure in 
accordance with the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs. 
 
Rule 417.  Notification of Entities Responsible for Handling of Information 
1. A listed company (excluding a listed foreign company whose listed foreign stock, etc. is 
principally traded on the market other than the Exchange; the same shall apply in the 
following paragraph) shall select at least one (1) entity responsible for handling of 
information (meaning an entity in charge of liaison pertaining to reporting in reply for 
inquiries that the Exchange makes pursuant to the provisions of Rule 415, Paragraph 1, and 
other matters regarding disclosure of corporate information) from among those specified by 
the Enforcement Rules and shall notify the name, title and contact of that entity to the 
Exchange. 
2. Where a listed company alters the contents of the notification in the preceding paragraph, it 
shall notify the Exchange of that fact. 
 
Rule 418.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 419.  Report Concerning Corporate Governance 
1. Where there has occurred any change in the information in a report including the matters 
regarding corporate governance specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall be said report 
after the change), a listed company shall submit a report after the change without delay. In 
this case, such listed company shall agree that the Exchange makes said report after the 
change available for public inspection. 
2. In the case of the first sentence of the preceding paragraph, if the details of such change relate 
to matters specified by the Enforcement Rules, a listed company may submit a report after 
the change without delay after the day of the first annual general shareholders meeting after 
the occurrence of such change. 
 
Rule 420.  Report Concerning Risk Information Pertaining to Structure of Corporate 
Group 
1. Where a listed company which has not submitted a report prescribed in Rule 204, Paragraph 
12, Item (2), Rule 210, Paragraph 12, Item (2), Rule 216, Paragraph 12, Item (2) or this 
paragraph makes an application for transfer of a market segment, or an application 
prescribed in Rule 310, Paragraph 1 or Rule 603, Paragraph 2 as well as where the Exchange 
deems that the structure of the corporate group of said listed company is peculiar, the listed 
company shall submit a report containing risk information pertaining to the structure of the 
corporate group when the Exchange approves transfer of  the market segment or when the 
listed company meets the criteria set forth in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Rule 
309, Paragraphs 1 through 3 or Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (5). In this case, such a listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
59 
company shall agree that the Exchange makes such report available for public inspection. 
2. Where there has occurred any change in details of a report prescribed in Rule 204, Paragraph 
12, Item (2), Rule 210, Paragraph 12, Item (2), Rule 216, Paragraph 12 Item (2) or the 
preceding paragraph (where a report after the change has been submitted pursuant to the 
provisions of this paragraph, it shall be said report after the change), a listed company shall 
submit a report after a change without delay and shall agree that the Exchange makes said 
report after the change available for public inspection; provided, however, that the same 
shall not apply to cases where the Exchange deems that said change in details is of minor 
significance. 
 
Section 3 
Procedures after Listing 
 
Sub-section 1 
Submission of Documents, etc. 
 
Rule 421.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. A listed company shall make submission, etc. of documents to the Exchange as specified by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
2. In addition to the preceding paragraph, a listed company shall submit without delay 
documents which the Exchange requests for a good reason, and shall agree that the Exchange 
will make documents deemed necessary by it for public inspection, out of such documents. 
 
Rule 422.  Report, etc. on Transfer of Offered Shares Allotted by Third-Party Allotment, 
etc. 
Reporting of transfer of offered shares allotted by third-party allotment that a listed company 
carries out and its assurance, etc. shall be made pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules.  
 
 
Sub-section 2 
Shareholder Services, etc. 
 
Rule 423.  Setting Up Offices for Handling Exercise, etc. 
1. A listed foreign company (limited to an issuer of a listed convertible bond) shall set up an 
exercise handling office or agency office for a subscription warrant pertaining to a listed 
convertible bond in Chuo-ku, Chiyoda-ku or Minato-ku in Tokyo or any of the places 
specified by the Exchange.  
2. Where a listed foreign company changes the handling office or agency office set up in 
accordance with the preceding paragraph, it shall submit its prior written notice to the 
Exchange.  
 
Rule 424.  Entrustment to Shareholder Services Agents 
A listed domestic company shall entrust its shareholder services to a shareholder services agent 
approved by the Exchange; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to a listed domestic 
company falling under the proviso of Rule 205, Item (8). 
 
Rule 425.  Ensuring Appropriate Shareholder Services and Dividend Payment Works 
A listed foreign company shall ensure that shareholder services specified by the Enforcement 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
60 
Rules or any other shareholder services and dividend payment works for beneficial shareholders 
of a foreign stock, etc. will be carried out appropriately. 
 
Rule 426.  Selection of Agents, etc. of Companies 
A listed foreign company shall, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, select an 
entity that has an address or residence in Japan and has the authority to deputize or represent 
such listed company with respect to all acts in relation to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 427.  Effective Date, etc. of Share Splits 
1. Where a listed domestic company carries out a share split  or a gratis allotment of shares 
(limited to share allocation of the same class as that of the shares pertaining to a listed 
domestic stock) with respect to a listed domestic stock, it shall specify the day following the 
record date, etc. for fixing the entities eligible for rights pertaining to such share split or 
gratis allotment of shares as the effective date of such share split or gratis allotment of shares. 
2. In cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, where it is necessary to satisfy certain 
requirements such as in a case where a resolution of a general shareholders meeting 
pertaining to an increase in the number of authorized shares is necessary, a listed domestic 
company shall set a day that falls on or after the third day (excluding non-business days) 
counting from the day on which such share split or gratis allotment of shares is determined 
to be conducted as the record date, etc. for fixing the entities eligible for rights pertaining to 
such share split or gratis allotment of shares. 
 
Rule 427-2.  Number of Shares Constituting One Unit 
1.  A listed domestic company shall make the number of shares constituting one unit of listed 
domestic shares comprised of one hundred (100) shares; provided, however, that this shall 
not apply to cases where a company is initially listed pursuant to the proviso of Rule 205, 
Item (9). 
2.  Where a listed domestic company changes the number of shares constituting one unit of a 
listed domestic stock or makes a resolution by the board of directors (including decision by 
board members in the case of a company with supervisory committee, and including 
decisions by executive officers in the case of a company with three committees (nomination, 
audit and remuneration) of newly setting up a provision concerning the number of shares 
constituting one unit, the listed company shall make the number of shares constituting one 
unit comprised of one hundred (100) shares. 
 
Rule 428.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 429.  Wide Awareness of Information Pertaining to Public Notice 
Where a listed domestic company makes a public notice pursuant to the provisions of laws and 
regulations, it shall make information pertaining to such public notice widely known to 
investors. 
 
Rule 430.  Notification and Public Notice of Period or Date for Right Allotment 
1. Where a listed foreign company decides a period or a date specified by the Enforcement 
Rules to determine entities who exercise a voting right, entities who receive a dividend or 
allocation of a share, or entities who should exercise a right as a shareholder (in cases of an 
issuer of a listed foreign stock depositary receipt, etc., where a depository, etc. pertaining to 
the listed foreign stock depository security, etc. decides a period or a date to determine entities 
who should exercise a right concerning such foreign depositary receipt, etc.), the listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
61 
foreign company shall notify the Exchange of such period or date two weeks before such 
period or date (where the deadline of notification and public notice required in the home 
country, etc. of such listed foreign company is earlier than a day two weeks prior to such 
period or date, prior to such deadline) and, in addition, shall make public notice in Japan; 
provided, however, that in cases of public notice specified by the Enforcement Rules, it may 
omit such public notice. 
2. Public notice in the preceding paragraph shall be made in the Japanese language. 
3. Public notice in Paragraph 1 shall be made in a manner corresponding to that made by a listed 
domestic company. 
 
Rule 431.  Notification of Decision Concerning Depositories, etc. Pertaining to Listed 
Foreign Stock Depositary Receipts, etc. 
Where a dividend or a subscription warrant or any other right is given to a foreign stock 
pertaining to a right representing a listed foreign stock depositary receipt, etc., if a depositary, 
etc. pertaining to the listed foreign stock depositary receipt, etc. makes decision on how to deal 
with such right, etc. concerning such foreign stock depositary receipt, etc., the issuer shall 
immediately notify the Exchange thereof. 
 
Section 4 
Code of Corporate Conduct 
 
Sub-section 1 
Matters to be Observed 
 
Rule 432.  Matters to be Observed for Third-Party Allotment 
A listed company, when performing an allotment of offered shares, etc. by third-party allotment 
(limited to cases where the ratio of voting rights specified in the Enforcement Rules is 25 % or 
more), or when there is the expectation of a change of a controlling shareholder due to such 
allotment, and conversion of offered shares, etc. or exercise related to such allotment, shall 
conduct any of the procedures referred to in the following items; provided, however, that the 
same shall not apply to cases where the Enforcement Rules specifies such allotment as a matter 
of extremely high urgency. 
(1) Receipt of the opinion of an entity who has a specific degree of independence from the 
management regarding the necessity and suitability of such allotment. 
(2) Confirmation of the intent of shareholders regarding such allotment by means such as 
a resolution in the general shareholders meeting. 
  
Rule 433.  Share Split, etc. 
A listed company shall not carry out a share split, gratis allotment of shares, gratis allotment of 
subscription warrants, share consolidation, or change in the number of shares constituting one 
unit which is likely to disrupt the secondary market or infringe upon shareholder interests.  
 
Rule 434.  Matters to be Observed Pertaining to Issuance of MSCB, etc. 
1. Where a listed company issues MSCB, etc., it shall take measures specified by the 
Enforcement Rules to restrict conversion or exercise of MSCB, etc. by entities who attempt 
to purchase MSCB, etc. 
2. The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not apply to cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise. 
3. The provisions of Rule 410, Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to applicable 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
62 
cases in the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 435.  Exercise of Voting Rights in Writing, etc. 
A listed domestic company shall determine matters referred to in Article 298, Paragraph 1, Item 
(3) of the Companies Act, where it convenes a general shareholders meeting; provided, however, 
that the same shall not apply to cases where it solicits all shareholders (excluding shareholders 
who may not exercise voting rights with respect to all the matters referred to in Item (2) of the 
same paragraph) to make third party exercise a voting right by proxy by delivering a form of 
power of attorney at the time of notifying them of a general shareholders meeting pursuant to 
the provisions of laws.  
 
Rule 436.  Framework Improvement to Facilitate Exercise of Voting Rights for Listed 
Foreign Companies 
Where a listed foreign company (limited to a listed foreign company whose listed foreign stock, 
etc. is traded principally on the Exchange market) convenes a general shareholders meeting, it 
shall send an instruction sheet (meaning a document by which a beneficial shareholder of a 
foreign stock, etc. gives instructions for an exercise of a voting right) and a reference document 
containing so adequate content that a beneficial shareholder of a foreign stock, etc. can give 
instruction for an exercise of a voting right (meaning a document containing matters that should 
serve as a reference regarding instruction for an exercise of a voting right) to beneficial 
shareholders of a foreign stock, etc., as a general rule, by two weeks prior to a day of such 
general shareholders meeting.  
 
Rule 436-2.  Securing Independent Director(s)/Auditor(s) 
1.  For the protection of general shareholders, a listed domestic company shall secure at least 
one independent director/auditor (meaning an outside director (meaning an outside director 
as prescribed in Article 2, Item (15) of the Companies Act who meets the requirements for 
outside officer as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 3, Item (5) of the Regulations for 
Enforcement of the Companies Act (Ministry of Justice Order No. 12 of 2006)) or outside 
company auditor (meaning an outside company auditor as prescribed in Article 2, Item (16) 
of the Companies Act who meets the requirements for outside officer as prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 3, Item (5) of the Regulations for Enforcement of the Companies Act) 
who is unlikely to have conflicts of interest with general shareholders; hereinafter the same). 
2. The Exchange shall specify the necessary items for securing an independent 
director(s)/auditor(s) in the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 436-3.  Explanation of Reason for Compliance or Non-Compliance with Corporate 
Governance Code 
When a listed domestic company complies or does not comply with each principle of the 
"Corporate Governance Code" (Appendix 1), it shall explain reasons for such compliance or 
non-compliance in the report prescribed in Rule 419. In this case, the category of listed domestic 
companies and the scope of the applicable principles subject to explanation of such reasons 
shall be as referred to in the following items. 
 (1) Listed domestic companies of Standard Market and Prime Market: 
     General Principles, Principles, and Supplementary Principles 
 (2) Listed domestic companies of the Growth Market 
 General Principles 
 
Rule 436-4.  English Disclosure of Corporate Information 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
63 
1. 
Where domestic companies listed on the Prime Market disclose corporate information 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 402, Rule 403, Rule 404, Paragraphs 1 and 2, Rule 405, 
Rule 408, Rules 408-3 through 411, and Rule 415, Paragraph 3 in Japanese, or voluntarily 
disclose corporate information based on an impact on investment decisions in a manner 
specified in Rule 414 in Japanese, they must disclose the same information simultaneously 
in English. However, this shall not apply in situations where disclosing in English would 
cause a delay to the Japanese disclosure. 
2. 
For the English disclosure prescribed in the preceding paragraph, disclosure of an excerpt 
or summary of the Japanese disclosure in English is acceptable. 
3. 
The provisions of Rule 413-2, Rule 414, and Rule 416, Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply 
mutatis mutandis to English disclosure prescribed in Paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 436-5.  Development of Investor Relations Systems 
A listed company shall develop systems and frameworks for providing information necessary 
to build relationships with shareholders and investors. 
 
Rule 437.  Organs of Listed Domestic Companies 
A listed domestic company shall set up a body referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) A board of directors; 
(2) A board of auditors, a supervisory committee, or three committees (nomination, audit and 
remuneration) (meaning nominating committees, etc. prescribed in Article 2, Item (12) of 
the Companies Act; and 
(3) Accounting auditors. 
 
Rule 437-2.  Securing Outside Director(s) 
A listed domestic company shall secure at least one outside director (meaning an outside 
director prescribed in Article 2, Item (15) of the Companies Act).  
 
Rule 438.  Certified Public Accountants, etc. 
1. A listed domestic company shall appoint its accounting auditor as a certified public 
accountant, etc. who carries out audit certification, etc. of financial statements, etc. or interim 
financial statements, etc. contained in an annual securities report or a semiannual securities 
report. 
2. In cases where a listed domestic company undergoes an interim review by a certified public 
accountant, etc. for quarterly financial statements, etc. prescribed in Rule 404, Paragraph 2, 
it shall appoint the accounting auditor of said issuer as the certified public accountant, etc. 
who performs the interim review for said quarterly financial statements, etc. 
 
Rule 439.  Development of System and Structure Necessary to Ensure Appropriateness 
of Business 
 A listed domestic company shall decide the development of a system and structure necessary 
to ensure that the execution of duties of directors or executive officers of such listed 
domestic company comply with laws and regulations and the articles of incorporation, and 
any other systems necessary to ensure the appropriateness of business of the domestic 
company and business of the corporate group composed of said domestic company and its 
subsidiaries (meaning development of a system and structure prescribed in Article 362, 
Paragraph 4, Item (6) of the Companies act,  Article 399-13, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c. of 
the same act or Article 416, Paragraph 1, Item (1), e. of the same act), as well as 
appropriately create and operate such system and structure. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
64 
 
 
 
Rule 440.  Matters to be Observed Pertaining to Introduction of Takeover Response 
Policies 
Where a listed company introduces a takeover response policy (meaning where it makes a 
decision on the specific contents of a takeover response policy), it shall observe the matters 
referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) Sufficient disclosure: 
The listed company shall make necessary and sufficient timely disclosure concerning the 
takeover response policy; 
(2) Transparency: 
The conditions for invocation and abolishment of countermeasures against acquisitions 
(meaning implementation of countermeasures against acquisitions and cancelation of 
previously invocated countermeasures against acquisitions, respectively) shall not depend 
on arbitrary decisions by the management; 
(3) Effect on the secondary market: 
Takeover response policies shall not include factors which may cause extremely unstable 
price formation of a share or any other factors which may cause unpredictable damage to 
investors; and 
(4) Respect for shareholders’ rights: 
Takeover response policies shall give consideration to shareholders’ rights and their 
exercise. 
 
Rule 441.  Matters to be Observed Pertaining to MBOs, etc. 
 
1. A listed company shall, if any of the actions referred to in the following items (limited 
to cases where the listed company's shares are expected to be delisted as a result of said 
action, or as a result of the series of actions scheduled to be taken after the 
implementation of the action listed in Item (1) or (2)) are to be carried out, obtain, from 
a special committee composed of persons specified in the Enforcement Rules and in the 
manner specified in the Enforcement Rules, a document containing an opinion stating 
that said action is fair to the general shareholders of the listed company. However, if the 
Exchange deems that the said action is of extreme urgency, it shall be sufficient to obtain 
a document containing the opinion of a person specified in the Enforcement Rules, in 
the manner specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) A takeover bid from an officer of the target of the takeover bid (including takeover bids 
where the bidder is conducting the bid based on the request of an officer of the target of 
the takeover bid and has a common interest with said officer) 
(2) A takeover bid from a controlling shareholder, other related company, or other entity 
specified by the Enforcement Rules 
(3) Actions referred to in Rule 402, Item (1), g., i., j., ap., or aq. (limited to those related to 
a controlling shareholder, other related company, or other entity specified by the 
Enforcement Rules (excluding entities who have become such an entity as a result of 
the takeover bid (excluding cases referred to in Item (1)), where it is conducted as one 
of a series of actions related to said action) 
2. A listed company shall, when it makes a decision to conduct an announcement of an 
opinion or representation to shareholders as prescribed in Rule 402, Paragraph 1, y., 
relating to a takeover bid referred to in Item (1) or (2) of the preceding paragraph, or any 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
65 
of the actions referred to in Item 3 of the same paragraph (limited to cases where the stock, 
etc. issued by said listed company is likely to be delisted due to said takeover bid, said 
action, or the series of actions scheduled to be conducted after said takeover bid), make 
necessary and sufficient timely disclosure and attach the document containing the opinion 
in the preceding paragraph to said timely disclosure. 
 
 
Rule 441-2.  Matters to be Observed Pertaining to Significant Transactions, etc. with 
Controlling Shareholder 
1.  A listed company that has a controlling shareholder shall, in the cases referred to in the 
following items (excluding cases prescribed in the main clause of Paragraph 1 of the 
preceding rule), obtain an opinion from an entity that is independent from such controlling 
shareholder stating that the decision on the matters prescribed in such items will not 
undermine the interests of minority shareholders of such listed company. 
(1) Where a body which decides the business execution of such listed company makes a 
decision on any of the matters referred to in a. (limited to cases of allocation of offered 
shares, etc. by third-party allotment, allocation of shares or subscription warrants to 
officers or employees of a listed company or its subsidiary, etc., or other allocation of 
offered shares, etc., deemed to be share compensation or stock options), e., g. (limited to 
cases where a listed company carries out a share consolidation with a consolidation ratio 
at which the number of all the shares owned by shareholders other than a specified party 
will be less than one share), i. through m., o. through s., w. through y., or ap through at. of 
Rule 402, Paragraph 1 (limited to matters related to a controlling shareholder and other 
persons specified by the Enforcement Rules) (limited to cases where disclosure of such 
content is required pursuant to the provisions of the same rule); or 
 (2) Where a body which decides the business execution of a subsidiary of such listed 
company, etc. makes a decision on any of the matters referred to in a. through e., g. through 
k., n., o., or s. through u. of Rule 403, Paragraph 1 (limited to matters related to a 
controlling shareholder and other persons specified by the Enforcement Rules) (limited to 
cases where disclosure of such content is required pursuant to the provisions of the same 
rule). 
2.  A listed company shall, in the cases referred to in each item of the preceding paragraph, 
perform necessary and sufficient timely disclosure. 
 
Rule 442.  Prohibition of Insider Trading 
A listed company must not allow its officers, agents, employees and other workers to conduct 
insider trading for such listed company’s account. 
 
Rule 443.  Exclusion of Anti-Social Forces 
A listed company shall not have relationships prescribed in the Enforcement Rules as those in 
which the listed company is involved with anti-social forces. 
 
Rule 444.  Prohibition of Actions Damaging to the Function of the Secondary Market or 
Shareholders’ Rights 
A listed company shall, in addition to observing the provisions of Rule 432 to the preceding 
rule, not conduct actions deemed by the Exchange as damaging to the function of the secondary 
market or the rights of shareholders. 
 
Sub-section 2 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
66 
Matters Desired to be Observed 
 
Rule 445.  Efforts, etc. toward the Shift to and Maintenance of the Desired Investment 
Unit Level 
A listed domestic company shall make efforts to shift to and maintain an investment unit of less 
than JPY 500,000 for such a listed domestic stock. 
 
Rule 445-2. Deleted. 
 
Rule 445-3.  Respect for the Corporate Governance Code 
Listed companies shall respect the intent and spirit of "Corporate Governance Code" (Appendix 
1) and make efforts to enhance their corporate governance. 
 
Rule 445-4.  Securing Independent Directors/Auditors as Directors on the Board 
A listed domestic company must make efforts to secure at least one independent director/auditor 
as a member of its board of directors. 
 
Rule 445-5.  Preparation of an Environment for the Functioning of Independent 
Directors/Auditors 
A listed domestic company shall make efforts to develop an environment where an independent 
director(s)/auditor(s) will fulfill the role expected thereof. 
 
Rule 445-6.  Provision of Information regarding Independent Director(s)/Auditor(s), etc. 
A listed domestic company shall make efforts to provide its shareholders with information 
regarding an independent director(s)/auditor(s) and information regarding the independence of 
outside director(s)/auditor(s) as provided in Article 2, Paragraph 3, Item (5) of the Enforcement 
Rules of the Companies Act in a manner which contributes to the exercise of voting rights in 
the general shareholders meeting. 
 
Rule 445-7. Appointment of Female Officers 
The Exchange shall establish rules for the appointment of female officers at domestic 
companies that are listed on the Prime Market in accordance with the "Establishment of 
Numerical Targets for the Percentage of Officers at Domestic Companies on the Prime Market" 
(Appendix 2). 
 
Rule 445-8. Expansion of English Disclosure 
In addition to information prescribed in Rule 436-4, where domestic companies listed on the 
Prime Market disclose or provide corporate information in Japanese (including cases where this 
is made available for public inspection), they shall endeavor to disclose or provide the same 
information simultaneously in English as far as possible. 
 
Rule 446.  Framework Improvement to Facilitate Exercise of Voting Rights 
A listed domestic company shall endeavor to carry out matters prescribed by the Enforcement 
Rules as a framework improvement to facilitate the exercise of voting rights at general 
shareholders meetings.  
 
Rule 447.  Documents to be Delivered to Shareholders Owning Shares Without Voting 
Rights 
In the event that an issuer of shares without voting rights has delivered documents for 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
67 
shareholders (excluding a document for exercising voting rights and proxy) to shareholders 
owning shares with voting rights, the issuer shall make efforts to immediately deliver such 
documents to shareholders owning shares without voting rights as well. 
 
Rule 448.  Deleted 
 
Rule 449.  System Improvement for Prevention of Occurrence of Insider Trading 
A listed company shall endeavor to develop necessary systems to prevent insider trading, etc. 
by its officers, agents, employees and other workers. 
 
Rule 450.  Development of System, etc. for Excluding Anti-Social Forces 
A listed company shall make efforts to develop a company structure to prevent damage due to 
anti-social forces including criminal and extremist elements and to prevent the intervention of 
anti-social forces against individual corporate activities. 
 
Rule 451.  Development of Systems and Structures to Properly Respond to Changes, etc. 
in Accounting Standards, etc. 
Listed domestic companies shall make efforts to develop such systems and structures as follows, 
so that they can appropriately grasp the contents of accounting standards or properly respond 
to changes in accounting standards, etc.: 
  (i) To obtain membership in an organization or association that performs submission or 
dissemination of opinions or communication with respect to details of accounting 
standards or their changes, etc.; and 
  (ii) To participate in training programs conducted by an accounting standard setting body, etc. 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 5 
Ensuring Effectiveness 
 
Section 1 
Continued Listing Criteria 
 
Rule 501. Continued Listing Criteria for Listed Domestic Companies 
1. A listed domestic company shall be required to continuously maintain, with regard to listed 
domestic stocks issued by such a listed domestic company, the states that meet the criteria 
specified in each of the following items in accordance with the categories referred to in each 
of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that where the general market condition rapidly 
deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that these criteria are not appropriate, the 
Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by-case basis;  
(1) Listed domestic stocks on the Standard Market (excluding listed domestic stocks 
specified in Item (4): the same shall apply hereinafter in the following item and Item 
(3)): 
a. Number of shareholders: 
 The number of shareholders shall be 400 or more as of the end of business year 
of the listed company. 
b. Tradable shares: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
68 
 The following (a) through (c) shall be met; provided, however, that in cases 
where such listed domestic stocks fall under Rule 205, Item (10), b. or c., (c) shall 
be excluded. 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be 2,000 units or more as of the end of 
the business year of the listed company; 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares shall be JPY 1 billion or more 
as of the end of business year of the listed company; and 
(c) The number of tradable shares shall be 25% or higher of the number of 
listed stocks, etc. as of the end of business year of the listed company. 
c. Trading volume: 
The monthly average trading volume of the listed stocks, etc., for six months 
prior to the end of June and prior to the end of December of every year shall be 
10 units or more. 
d. Amount of net assets: 
The amount of net assets shall be positive as of the end of business year of the 
listed company. 
(2) Listed domestic stocks on the Prime Market: 
a. Number of shareholders: 
The number of shareholders shall be 800 or more as of the end of business year 
of the listed company. 
b. Tradable shares 
The following (a) through (c) shall be met; provided, however, that in cases 
where such listed domestic stocks fall under Rule 205, Item (10), b. or c., (c) shall 
be excluded. 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be 20,000 units or more as of the end 
of the business year of the listed company; 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares shall be JPY 10 billion or more 
as of the end of business year of the listed company; and 
(c) The number of tradable shares shall be 35% or higher of the number of 
listed stocks, etc. as of the end of business year of the listed company. 
c. Trading value 
 The daily average trading value of the listed stocks, etc. for one (1) year prior to 
the end of December of every year shall be JPY 20 million or more. 
d. Amount of net assets: 
The amount of net assets shall be positive as of the end of business year of the 
listed company. 
(3) Listed domestic stocks on the Growth Market: 
a. Number of shareholders: 
The number of shareholders shall be 150 or more as of the end of business year 
of the listed company. 
b. Tradable shares: 
 The following (a) through (c) shall be met; provided, however, that in cases 
where such listed domestic stocks fall under Rule 205, Item (10), b. or c., (c) shall 
be excluded. 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be 1,000 units or more as of the end of 
the business year of the listed company; 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares shall be JPY 500 million or 
more as of the end of business year of the listed company; and 
(c) The number of tradable shares shall be 25% or higher of the number of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
69 
listed stocks, etc. as of the end of business year of the listed company. 
c. Trading volume: 
The monthly average trading volume of the listed stocks, etc., for six months 
prior to the end of June and prior to the end of December of every year shall be 
10 units or more. 
d. Market capitalization: 
The market capitalization shall be JPY 10 billion or more as of the end of 
business year of the listed company (limited to cases where 5 years have elapsed 
since listing).  
e. Amount of net assets: 
The amount of net assets shall be positive as of the end of business year of the 
listed company. 
(4) Shares without voting rights in cases where both shares with voting rights and shares 
without voting rights whose issuer is the same are listed:  
a. Number of shareholders: 
The number of shareholders shall be 400 or more as of the end of business year 
of the listed company. 
b. Tradable shares: 
The following (a) and (b) shall be met. 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be 2,000 units or more as of the end of 
the business year of the listed company; and 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares shall be JPY 1 billion or more 
as of the end of business year of the listed company. 
c. Trading volume: 
The monthly average trading volume of the listed stocks, etc., for six months 
prior to the end of June and prior to the end of December of every year shall be 
10 units or more. 
2. With regards to the application of the provisions of Items (1), a. and b., Item (2), a. and b., 
Item (3), a. and b. and Item (4), a. and b. of the preceding paragraph pertaining to a listed 
domestic company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end of a business year, the 
number of shareholders, the number of tradable shares, the market capitalization of tradable 
shares and the number of listed stocks, etc. as of the shareholder, etc. record date shall be 
deemed to be the number of shareholders, the number of tradable shares, the market 
capitalization of tradable shares and the number of listed stocks, etc. as of the end of the 
business year. 
3. In cases where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that does not meet the criteria 
specified in each item of Paragraph 1, the listed domestic company shall submit the plans 
within the three months calculated from falling into such a situation (this shall not apply to 
cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for the listed domestic company to disclose the 
plan within three months due to reasons not attributable to the listed domestic company, such 
as act of providence) which describes its initiatives and implementation date thereof for the 
purpose of meeting the criteria within the period specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
4. During the period until meeting the criteria specified in each item of Paragraph 1, if there 
arises any events that requires a change or correction to the details of the plans, submitted to 
the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, a listed domestic 
company shall submit the plans after the corrections or changes immediately.  
5. In cases where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that does not meet the criteria 
specified in Paragraph 1, Item (1), d, Item (2), d. or Item (3), e., during the period from 
submitting the plan prescribed in the Paragraph 3 until meeting such criteria, a listed domestic 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
70 
company shall submit the documents describing the progress of the plan prescribed in 
Paragraph 3, before disclosing the details of the financial results for each business year, each 
interim accounting period or each cumulative quarterly accounting period (excluding the 
second cumulative quarterly accounting period), or each consolidated accounting year, each 
interim consolidated accounting period or each cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting 
period (excluding the second cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period) as 
specified by Rule 404, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2. 
6. In cases where a listed domestic company disclose the documents referred to in preceding 
three paragraphs, the Exchange shall deem that the listed domestic company submit such 
documents. 
 
Rule 502. Continued Listing Criteria for Listed Foreign Companies 
1. A listed foreign company shall be required to continuously maintain, with regard to listed 
foreign stocks, etc. issued by such a listed foreign company (excluding cases of multiple 
listing), the states that meet the criteria specified in each of the following items in accordance 
with the categories referred to in each of the following items. In this case, details of each 
such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that where the 
general market condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that these 
criteria are not appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by-case basis;  
(1) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Standard Market: 
Paragraph 1, Item (1), a, b. (a) and (b), c. and d. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
(2) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Prime Market: 
Paragraph 1, Item (2), a., b. (a) and (b), c., d. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
(3) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Growth Market: 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), a., b. (a) and (b), c., d. and e. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
2. A listed foreign company shall be required to continuously maintain, with regard to listed 
foreign stocks, etc. issued by such a listed foreign company (limited to cases of multiple 
listing), the states that meet the criteria specified in each of the following items in accordance 
with the categories referred to in each of the following items. In this case, details of each such 
item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that where the general 
market condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that these criteria are 
not appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by-case basis;  
(1) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Standard Market: 
a. The status of trading of a listed foreign stock, etc. shall be deemed to be good as of 
the end of a business year of the listed foreign company. 
b. Paragraph 1, Item (1), d. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
(2) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Prime Market: 
a. The status of trading of a listed foreign stock, etc. shall be deemed to be sufficiently 
good as of the end of a business year of the listed foreign company. 
b. Paragraph 1, Item (2), d. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
(3) Listed foreign stocks, etc. on the Growth Market: 
a. The status of trading of a listed foreign stock, etc. shall be deemed to be good as of 
the end of a business year of the listed foreign company. 
b. Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. of the preceding rule shall be met. 
3. In cases where a listed foreign company falls into a situation that does not meet the criteria 
specified in each item of Paragraph 1 or each item of the preceding paragraph, the listed 
foreign company shall submit the plans within the six months calculated from falling into such 
a situation (in cases where a listed foreign company falls into a situation that does not meet 
the criteria specified in each item of Paragraph 1, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c. or d. Paragraph 1, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
71 
Item (2), c. or d. or Paragraph 1, Item (3), c., d. or e. pursuant to the provisions of each item 
of Paragraph 2, it shall be within three months calculated from falling into such a 
situation)(this shall not apply to cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for the listed 
foreign company to disclose the plan within such periods due to reasons not attributable to a 
listed foreign company, such as act of providence) which describes its initiatives and 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria within the period specified 
by the Enforcement Rules. 
4. During the period until meeting the criteria specified in each item of Paragraph 1 or each 
item of Paragraph 2, if there arises any events that requires a change or correction to the details 
of the plans, submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, 
a listed foreign company shall submit the plans after the corrections or changes immediately.  
5. In cases where a listed foreign company falls into a situation that does not meet the criteria 
specified in each item of Paragraph 1, Item (1), d, Item (2), d. or Item (3), e. pursuant to the 
provisions of each item of Paragraph 2, during the period from disclosing the plan prescribed 
in the Paragraph 3 until meeting such criteria, a listed foreign company shall submit the 
documents describing the progress of the plan prescribed in Paragraph 3, before disclosing the 
details of the financial results for each business year, each interim accounting period or each 
cumulative quarterly accounting period (excluding the second cumulative quarterly 
accounting period), or each consolidated accounting year, each interim consolidated 
accounting period or each cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period (excluding the 
second cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period), as specified by Rule 404, 
Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2. 
6. In cases where a listed foreign company disclose the documents referred to in preceding three 
paragraphs, the Exchange shall deem that the listed foreign company submit such documents. 
 
Section 2 
Securities on Special Alert 
 
Rule 503.  Designation and De-designation of Securities on Special Alert 
1. The Exchange may, in the cases referred to in the following items, and, in addition, where 
the Exchange deems that improvement of the internal management system, etc. of such listed 
company is highly necessary, designate the listed stock, etc. issued by such listed company 
as a Security on Special Alert: 
(1) Where the Exchange deems that a listed company does not fall under Rule 601, 
Paragraph 1, Item (6), Item (10), a. (excluding cases where a listed company has 
committed a material breach as to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 204, Paragraph 1, Rule 210, Paragraph 1, Rule 216, 
Paragraph 1, Rule 301, Paragraph 3, or Rule 306, Paragraph 4 (including cases as 
applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 310, Paragraph 2 or Rule 603, Paragraph 4)), Item 
(19), or Item (20) (including cases where it falls under Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (5), 
or Paragraph 2, Item (3)) after having deemed that it is likely that such company does 
so qualify; 
(2) Where a listed company falls under any of the following a. through c.: 
a.  Where a listed company has made false statements in an annual securities report, 
etc. 
b.  Where, in audit reports attached to a listed company’s financial statements, etc., 
or interim audit reports or interim review reports attached to a listed company’s 
interim financial statements, etc., a certified public accountant, etc. expresses an 
"adverse opinion" or "disclaimer of opinion" in an audit report, an "opinion that 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
72 
the interim financial statements, etc. do not provide useful information" or 
"disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit report, or an "adverse conclusion" or 
"disclaimer of conclusion" in an interim review report; however, that this 
excludes cases where a "disclaimer of opinion" or "disclaimer of conclusion" is 
stated, and such statements are made due to reasons not attributable to the listed 
company, such as act of providence; 
c.  Where an interim review report is attached, pursuant to the provision of Rule 
404, Paragraph 4, to a listed company’s quarterly financial statements, etc. 
prescribed in Paragraph 2 of the same rule, and public certified accountants, etc. 
state an "adverse conclusion" or "disclaimer of conclusion" in said interim 
review report; provided, however, that this excludes cases where an "disclaimer 
of conclusion" is stated and such statements are made due to reasons not 
attributable to the listed company, such as act of providence. 
(3) Where the Exchange deems that a listed company has violated the provisions of 
Chapter 4, Section 2; 
(4) Where the Exchange deems that a listed company has violated the provisions of 
Chapter 4, Section 4, Sub-section 1; or 
(5) Where the Exchange deems it will not recognize improvement in the execution of 
improvement measures and operating conditions in a listed company which has 
submitted an improvement report according to provisions of Paragraph 3 of the 
following rule (including cases where these provisions are applied mutatis mutandis 
in Rule 505, Paragraph 7). 
2. A listed company which is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. designated as a Security on Special 
Alert pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall submit a document specified 
by the Enforcement Rules that contains the status of the internal management system, etc. 
(hereinafter referred to as a "Written Confirmation of Internal Management System") 
promptly after one (1) year has elapsed since such designation. 
3. The Exchange shall conduct examination on the internal management system, etc. on the 
basis of the substance of the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph and the substance, etc. of reports 
submitted pursuant to Paragraph 11. 
4. The Exchange shall handle listed stocks, etc. as specified by each of the following items in 
accordance with the classifications referred to in each such item, based on the results of the 
examination referred to in the preceding paragraph: 
(1) Where the Exchange deems that the internal management system, etc. is adequately 
developed and implemented (excluding cases falling under b. of the next item.) 
  De-designation as a Security on Special Alert 
(2) Where cases fall under the following a. or b. 
a. Where, although the internal management system, etc. is deemed to have been 
adequately developed, it is not deemed to be adequately implemented (excluding 
cases where the Exchange deems that the listed company's internal management 
system, etc. is no longer likely to be adequately implemented as prescribed by Rule 
601, Paragraph 1, Item 9, c.) 
b. Where the Exchange deems that the listed company's internal management system, 
etc. is adequately developed and implemented, but the company falls under the 
following (a) or (b): 
(a) Cases specified by the Enforcement Rules as those where business continuity and 
profitability are not ensured 
(b)Where the company is within the period specified in the Enforcement Rules as 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
73 
prescribed in Rule 501, Paragraph 3 because it does not meet any of the criteria 
stipulated in each item of Rule 501, Paragraph 1 or Paragraphs 1 or 2 of the 
preceding rule, according to the classifications referred to in said items, or 
otherwise where a case is specified by the Enforcement Rules as one where the 
company is likely to not meet said criteria 
 Extension of designation as a Security on Special Alert 
5. A listed company that is an issuer of a listed stock, etc., for which designation as a Security 
on Special Alert has been extended pursuant to the provisions of Item 2 of the preceding 
paragraph, must resubmit the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System within 
three months counting from the last day of the business year containing the day on which the 
Exchange decided to extend the designation (if the period between the day of the decision 
and the end of the business year is less than three months, the next business year). 
6. The Exchange shall conduct examination on the internal management system, etc. on the 
basis of the substance of the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System 
resubmitted pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph and the substance, etc. of 
reports submitted pursuant to Paragraph 11. 
7. Based on the results of the examination defined in the preceding paragraph, the Exchange 
shall handle listed stocks, etc. as specified in each of the following items, according to the 
classifications referred to in each said item. 
(1) Where the Exchange deems that the internal management system, etc. is adequately 
developed and implemented (unless the next item is applicable) 
De-designation as a Security on Special Alert 
(2) Where, although the Exchange deems that the internal management system, etc. is 
adequately developed and implemented, the company falls under the following a. or b. 
a. Cases specified by the Enforcement Rules as those where business continuity and 
profitability are not ensured 
b. Where the company is within the period specified by the Enforcement Rules as 
prescribed by Rule 501, Paragraph 3 because it does not meet any of the criteria 
stipulated in each item of Rule 501, Paragraph 1 or Paragraphs 1 or 2 of the preceding 
rule, according to the classifications referred to in said items, or otherwise where a 
case is specified by the Enforcement Rules as one where the company is likely to not 
meet said criteria 
Extension of designation as a Security on Special Alert 
8. If a listed company is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. for which designation as a Security on 
Special Alert has been extended pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 4, Item 2, b., Item 2 
of the preceding paragraph, or Paragraph 10, Item 1, b., said company must resubmit the 
Written Confirmation of Internal Management System within three months counting from 
the last day of its business year containing the day on which the Exchange decided to extend 
the designation (if the period between the day of the decision and the end of the business year 
is less than three months, the next business year). 
9. The Exchange shall examine the internal management system, etc. based on the contents of 
the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System resubmitted pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph and the contents of reports submitted pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 11. 
10. Based on the results of the examination referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Exchange 
shall handle listed stocks, etc. as specified in each of the following items, according to the 
examination classifications referred to in said items. The said examination classifications 
shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) First and Second Examinations 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
74 
a. Where the Exchange deems that the listed company has adequately developed and 
implemented its internal management system, etc. (excluding cases falling under the 
following b.) 
De-designation as a Security on Special Alert 
b. Where, although the Exchange deems that the listed company has adequately 
developed and implemented its internal management system, etc., the listed company 
falls under the following (a) or (b) 
(a) Cases specified by the Enforcement Rules as those where business continuity and 
profitability are not ensured 
(b) Where the company is within the period specified by the Enforcement Rules as 
prescribed in Rule 501, Paragraph 3 because it does not meet any of the criteria 
stipulated in each item of Rule 501, Paragraph 1 or Paragraphs 1 or 2 of Rule 502, 
according to the classifications referred to in said items, or otherwise where a case 
is specified by the Enforcement Rules as one where the company is likely to not 
meet said criteria 
Extension of designation as a Security on Special Alert 
(2) Third Examination 
If the Exchange deems that the listed company has adequately developed and 
implemented its internal management system, etc., it will de-designate the company's 
stock, etc. as a Security on Special Alert. 
11. A listed company which is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. designated as a Security on 
Special Alert pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall accurately report on enquired 
matters immediately, where the Exchange makes an inquiry of the internal management 
system, etc. of such listed company after deeming it necessary. 
12. The provisions of Rule 415, Paragraph 2 and Paragraph 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to inquiries pursuant to the provision of the preceding rule. 
13. If a listed company that is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. designated as a Security on Special 
Alert pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 falls under any of the following items, the 
Exchange shall de-designate said stock, etc. as a Security on Special Alert on a day specified 
by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where the company has filed an application for a market segment transfer of said stock, 
etc. pursuant to the provisions of Rule 306, and the Exchange deems that said transfer is 
appropriate. 
(2) Where the company has filed an application for examination of whether it meets the 
criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules as prescribed by Rule 309, Paragraphs 1 
through 4 pursuant to the provisions of Rule 310, Paragraph 1, and the Exchange deems 
that the company meets the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules 
(3) Where the listed company has filed an application for examination of whether it meets 
the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules as prescribed by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, 
Item 5 pursuant to the provisions of Rule 603, Paragraph 2, and the Exchange deems that 
the company meets the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Section 3 
Improvement Report 
 
Rule 504.  Submission of Improvement Report Pertaining to Timely Disclosure, etc. 
1. In the cases referred to in the following items and where the Exchange deems that 
improvement is highly necessary, the Exchange may request that the listed company submit 
a report which contains its background and improvement measures (hereinafter referred to 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
75 
as an "Improvement Report"). 
(1) Where the Exchange deems a listed company has breached the provisions of Chapter 
4, Section 2; or 
(2) Where the Exchange deems a listed company has breached the provisions of Chapter 
4, Section 4, Sub-Section 1. 
2. Where the Exchange deems that the contents of the Improvement Report submitted pursuant 
to the provisions of the preceding paragraph are apparently inadequate, the Exchange may 
request such listed company to change it and resubmit an Improvement Report. 
3. Where a listed company is required to submit the Improvement Report pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding two paragraphs, it shall promptly submit such improvement 
report.  
4. Where a listed company submits the Improvement Report to the Exchange pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Exchange shall make such Improvement Report 
(excluding the improvement report with substance deemed clearly inadequate pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 2) for public inspection. 
 
Rule 505.  Submission of Improvement Status Report, etc. 
1. A listed company which has submitted the Improvement Report pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule (including cases where these provisions are applied 
mutatis mutandis in Paragraph 7; the same shall apply in this rule) shall promptly submit a 
report containing the status of implementation and operation of the improvement measures 
(hereinafter referred to as an "Improvement Status Report" in this rule) after six months from 
the submission of such Improvement Report. However, this shall not apply if the Exchange 
deems it appropriate. 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Exchange may request a 
listed company which has submitted the Improvement Report pursuant to the provisions of 
Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule to submit the Improvement Status Report, where the 
Exchange deems it necessary pertaining to the status of implementation and operation of the 
improvement measures of such listed company until five years have passed since the 
submission of such Improvement Report. 
3. Where a listed company is requested to submit the Improvement Status Report pursuant to 
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, it shall promptly submit such Improvement Status 
Report. 
4. Where a listed company submits the Improvement Status Report to the Exchange pursuant 
to the provisions of Paragraph 1 or the preceding paragraph, the Exchange shall make such 
Improvement Status Report for public inspection. 
5. A listed company which has submitted the Improvement Report pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall accurately report on enquired matters immediately 
where the Exchange makes an inquiry into the status of implementation and operation of the 
improvement measures of such issuer.  
6. In the cases referred to in each of the following items, the Exchange may request such listed 
company to submit the Improvement Report: 
(1) Where a listed company does not promptly submit the Improvement Status Report 
prescribed in Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 3 and does not submit by the submission deadline 
after a reasonable period specified by the Exchange; 
(2) The Exchange deems that the content of the Improvement Status Report submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 3 is apparently inadequate; and 
(3) A listed company does not carry out reporting appropriately on the basis of the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph, and the Exchange deems that improvement is highly necessary. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
76 
7. The provisions of Paragraphs 2 through 4 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to the Improvement Report in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 505-2.  Submission of Improvement Status Report, etc. after De-designation as a 
Security on Special Alert 
1. The Exchange may require a listed company that is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. which 
the Exchange has de-designated as a Security on Special Alert pursuant to the provisions of 
Rule 503, Paragraph 4, Item 1, Paragraph 7, Item 1, Paragraph 10, Item 1. a. or Item 2, or 
Paragraph 13 to submit a report describing the status of the development and 
implementation of its internal management system (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Improvement Status Report" in this rule) within the five years from said de-designation, 
when the Exchange deems it necessary regarding said company's development and 
implementation of its internal management system. 
2. Where a listed company is the issuer of a listed stock, etc. which the Exchange has de-
designated as a Security on Special Alert pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 
4, Item 1, Paragraph 7, Item 1, Paragraph 10, Item 1, a. or Item 2, or Paragraph 13, and the 
Exchange makes an inquiry to said company that it deems necessary regarding the status of 
the development and implementation of said company's internal management system, said 
company shall immediately and accurately report to the Exchange on the matters included 
in the inquiry. 
3. The provisions of Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the preceding rule as well as Items 1 and 2 of 
Paragraph 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Improvement Status Report defined in 
Paragraph 1. 
4. The provisions of Paragraph 6, Item 3 of the preceding rule shall apply mutatis mutandis to 
the report defined in Paragraph 2. 
5. The provisions of Rule 504, Paragraphs 2 through 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the 
Improvement Report defined in Paragraph 6 of the preceding rule which is applied mutatis 
mutandis in the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 506.  Submission of Improvement Report Pertaining to Submission, etc. of 
Documents 
1. Where a listed company does not appropriately carry out submission, etc. of documents 
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 3, Section 1, Rule 421, Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 through 
5(including cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 715) or Rule 502, Paragraphs 3 through 
5, the Exchange may request such listed company to submit the Improvement Report if the 
Exchange deems that improvement is highly necessary. 
2. The provisions of Rule 504, Paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
Improvement Report of the preceding paragraph. 
3. The provisions of Rule 504, Paragraph 4 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a 
listed company does not appropriately carry out submission, etc. of documents pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 through 5 (including cases pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 715) or Rule 502, Paragraphs 3 through 5.  
 
Rule 507.  Submission of Improvement Report Pertaining to Ensuring, etc. 
1. Where a listed company does not appropriately provide a report on transfer of an offered 
share and its affirmation, etc. on the basis of the provisions of Rule 422, the Exchange may 
request such listed company to submit the Improvement Report. 
2. Where a listed company submits the report mentioned in the preceding paragraph pursuant 
to the provisions of the same paragraph, the Exchange may make such report for public 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
77 
inspection if the Exchange deems it necessary and appropriate. 
 
Section 4 
Public Announcement 
 
Rule 508.  Public Announcement Measure 
1. In the cases referred to in each of the following items, the Exchange may make a public 
announcement of such information if the Exchange deems this necessary: 
(1) Where the Exchange deems a listed company has breached the provisions of Chapter 4, 
Section 2; 
(1)-2 Where the Exchange deems that a listed company has breached the provisions of Rule 
427-2, Paragraph 1; 
(1)-3 Where the Exchange deems a listed company has breached the provisions of Rule 501, 
Paragraphs 3 through 5 (including cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 715) or Rule 
502, Paragraphs 3 through 5; 
(2) Where the Exchange deems a listed company has breached the provisions of Chapter 4, 
Section 4, Sub-Section 1; or 
(3) Where a listed company breaches the provisions of Article 331, Article 335, Article 337, 
or Article 400 of the Companies Act. 
2. Where a listed company breaches any of the provisions from Rules 435 through 436-2 and 
Rules 437 through 439, or falls under Item (3) of the preceding paragraph, the listed company 
shall report to the Exchange immediately. 
 
Section 5 
Listing Agreement Violation Penalty 
 
Rule 509.  Listing Agreement Violation Penalty 
1. In the cases referred to in each of the following items, if the Exchange deems that said listed 
company has undermined the confidence of shareholders and investors in the Exchange 
market, the Exchange may claim payment of a listing agreement violation penalty against 
said listed company. In this case, the Exchange shall make a public announcement of such 
information. 
(1) Where the Exchange deems that a listed company has breached the provisions of 
Chapter 4, Section 2; 
(2) Where the Exchange deems that a listed company has breached the provisions of 
Chapter 4, Section 4, Sub-Section 1; or 
(3) In addition to the cases referred to in the preceding two items, where the Exchange 
deems that a listed company has breached the Securities Listing Regulations or other 
regulations. 
2. If a listed company is requested to pay a listing agreement violation penalty pursuant to the 
preceding paragraph, said listed company must pay the listing agreement violation penalty 
as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Section 6 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 510.  Examination of Provisions Pertaining to Ensuring Effectiveness 
The Exchange shall prescribe necessary matters concerning examinations pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 503 through the preceding rule by the Guidelines Concerning Listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
78 
Company Compliance, etc.    
 
Rule 511.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange for Examination Regarding Provisions 
for Ensuring Effectiveness 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary, for the purpose of examination pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 503 through 509, to request certified public accountants, etc. who 
perform audit certifications, etc. for financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, 
etc., or interim reviews for quarterly financial statements, etc. prescribed in Rule 404, 
Paragraph 2 (including those who have previously been said certified public accountants, 
etc.; the same shall apply in the following paragraph) to provide explanations or other 
information regarding a particular issue, the listed company shall cooperate in this process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to a listed company for the purpose of requesting said 
certified public accountants, etc. to provide explanations or other information regarding a 
particular issue pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, said listed company 
shall promptly submit a document stating that it agrees to said certified public accountants, 
etc. providing said explanations or other information. 
 
Chapter 6 
Delisting 
 
Section 1 
Delisting Criteria  
 
Rule 601.  Delisting Criteria for Listed Domestic Companies 
1. Where a listed domestic stock falls under any of the following items, it shall be delisted. In 
this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Nonconformity to continued listing criteria: 
In cases where a listed domestic stock fails to meet the criteria specified in each item of 
Rule 501, Paragraph 1 in accordance with the classification referred to in such item, and 
when the listed domestic stock continues failing to meet such criteria within the period 
specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Paragraph 3 of the same rule; 
(2) Suspension of bank transactions: 
  Where a bill, etc. issued by a listed company is dishonored and its bank transactions are 
suspended or their suspension becomes certain; 
(3) Bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings or reorganization proceedings: 
  Where a listed company become necessary to enter its bankruptcy proceedings, 
rehabilitation proceedings or reorganization proceedings on the basis of the provisions of 
laws or where it falls under a situation equivalent to these; provided, however, that this shall 
not apply to the cases where the company discloses a restructuring plan specified 
Enforcement Rules; 
(4) Suspension of business activities: 
  Where a listed company suspends its business activities or where it falls into a situation 
equivalent to this; 
(5) Inappropriate merger, etc.: 
In the cases referred to in the following a. or b., where the Exchange deems that such a. or 
b. is met: 
  a. Where a listed company carries out an absorption-type merger of an unlisted company or 
an act specified by the Enforcement Rules as an act classified as this (hereinafter referred 
to as an "absorption-type merger, etc." in this a.):  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
79 
    Where the Exchange deems that such listed company is not a substantial surviving 
company and such listed company (meaning the entity specified by the Enforcement 
Rules as an unlisted company which is the party involved before an absorption-type 
merger, etc.) does not satisfy the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules within three 
years; or 
  b. Where a company is listed pursuant to Rule 208, Item (1), Item (3), Item (5), Rule 214, 
Item (1), Item (3), Item (5), or Rule 220, Item (1), Item (3) or Item (5) (excluding cases 
where all parties in a consolidation-type merger, share transfer, or incorporation-type 
company split are listed companies): 
    Where the Exchange deems that a listed company specified in each such item is not a 
substantial surviving company pertaining to such a company, and such a company 
(meaning the entity specified by the Enforcement Rules as an unlisted company which is 
subject to an examination before falling under each such item) does not satisfy the criteria 
specified by the Enforcement Rules within three years; 
(6) Damage to sound transactions with controlling shareholder: 
Where there is a change of a controlling shareholder due to third-party allotment, when the 
Exchange deems there is considerable damage to sound transactions with the controlling 
shareholder within the coming 3 years; 
(7) Delay in submission of an annual securities report or a semiannual securities report : 
Where an annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report, 
interim audit report, or interim review report as specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the 
Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm is attached (including an audit report, interim audit report or 
interim review report pertaining to certification corresponding to audit certification by an 
entity corresponding to a certified public accountant or an audit firm) is not submitted to 
the Prime Minister, etc. within a month after a period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 
or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act passes (in cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
within a period specified by the Enforcement Rules and if the day falls on a non-business 
day, the date shall be moved to the following business day.); 
(8) False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
Where such statement, etc. falls under Rule 503, Paragraph 1, Item (2) a. or b., and the 
Exchange deems that it clearly difficult to maintain order in the market if the listed 
company is not delisted immediately: 
(9) Securities on Special Alert, etc. 
When falling under the cases specified in the following a. through g. in accordance with 
the classifications referred to in said a. through g.: 
a.  In the cases referred to in each item of Rule 503, Paragraph 1, the Exchange deems 
that improvement of the internal management system, etc. of a listed company is 
highly necessary; 
Where the Exchange deems that the internal management system, etc. of the 
listed company is unlikely to be adequately developed or unlikely to be 
adequately implemented 
b.  Where the designation as a Security on Special Alert was made pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 1, and before the listed company submits the 
Written Confirmation of Internal Management System based on Paragraph 2 of the 
same rule; 
Where the Exchange deems that the internal management system, etc. of the 
listed company is no longer likely to be adequately developed or that it is no 
longer likely to be adequately implemented 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
80 
c.  Where the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System is submitted 
pursuant to the provision of Rule 503, Paragraph 2; 
Where the Exchange deems that the listed company's internal management 
system, etc. is not adequately developed or that it is no longer likely to be 
adequately implemented 
d.  Where the designation as a Security on Special Alert is continued pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 4, Item (2), and before the listed company submits 
the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System based on Paragraph 5 of 
the same rule; 
Where the Exchange deems that the listed company's internal management 
system, etc. is not adequately developed or that it is no longer likely to be 
adequately implemented  
e. Where the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System is re-submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 5; 
Where the internal management system, etc. of the listed company is not deemed 
to be adequately developed and implemented 
f. Where the designation as a Security on Special Alert has been extended pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 4, Item 2. b., Paragraph 7, Item 2, or Paragraph 
10, Item 1, b., but the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System based 
on the provisions of Paragraph 8 of same rule has not been submitted 
Where the internal management system, etc. of the listed company is not deemed 
to be adequately developed and implemented 
g. Where the Written Confirmation of Internal Management System has been 
resubmitted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 8 
Where the internal management system, etc. of the listed company is not deemed 
to be adequately developed and implemented 
(10) Breach of listing agreement, etc.: 
In the cases referred to in the following a. or b., where the Exchange deems that a listed 
company falls under such a. or b.: 
a. Where a listed company has committed a material breach of the listing agreement as 
prescribed by the Enforcement Rules, where a listed company has committed a 
material breach as to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 204, Paragraph 1, Rule 210, Paragraph 1, Rule 216, Paragraph 
1, Rule 301, Paragraph 3, or Rule 306, Paragraph 4(including cases as applied mutatis 
mutandis in Rule 310, Paragraph 2 or Rule 603, Paragraph 4), or where a listed 
company ceases to be a party to the listing agreement; or 
b. Where a listed company has committed a breach (excluding cases of preceding a.) as 
to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the provisions of 
Rule 204, Paragraph 1, Rule 210, Paragraph 1, Rule 216, Paragraph 1, Rule 301, 
Paragraph 3 or Rule 306, Paragraph 4 (including cases as applied mutatis mutandis in 
Rule 310, Paragraph 2 or Rule 603, Paragraph 4)(excluding the Written Oath submitted 
by an applicant pursuant to provisions for technical listing), and the Exchange deems 
that the listed company did not meet the criteria pertaining to initial listing, criteria 
pertaining to listing of new stocks, etc. or criteria pertaining to transfer of market 
segments (excluding cases where the Exchange deems that it is not necessary to 
conduct the examination whether a listed company meet the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules) and if the listed company fails to meet the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules.  
(11) Entrustment to shareholder services agents: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
81 
   Where a listed company (excluding a listed company falling under the proviso of Rule 205, 
Item (8)) has come not to entrust shareholder services to a shareholder services agent 
approved by the Exchange or it has become certain to be so; 
(12) Restriction on transfer of shares: 
   Where a listed company imposes a restriction on transfer of shares pertaining to such a 
security of a listed company; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases 
where a restriction is imposed concerning transfer of shares on the basis of the provisions 
of a special law specified by the Enforcement Rules and the details of the restriction are 
deemed not to hinder trading in the market of the Exchange; 
(13) Becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary: 
Where a listed company becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of another company by share 
exchange or share transfer; 
(14) Handling by a designated book-entry transfer institution: 
Where said issue ceases to be subject to the book-entry transfer operation of a designated 
book-entry transfer institution; 
(15) Unreasonable restriction on shareholders’ rights: 
Where the details of shareholders’ rights and their exercise are unreasonably restricted as 
specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(16) Whole acquisition: 
Where a listed company acquires all shares pertaining to such stock; 
(17) Acquisition due to demand for share, etc. cash-out: 
Where a special controlling shareholder acquires all shares pertaining to the stock of a 
listed company; 
(18) Share Consolidation 
Where a listed company carry out a share consolidation with a consolidation ratio at which 
the number of all the shares owned by shareholders other than a specified party will be less 
than one share. 
(19) Involvement of Anti-Social Forces: 
Where it has become clear that a listed company has relationships prescribed in the 
Enforcement Rules as those in which the listed company is involved with anti-social forces, 
when the Exchange deems that such condition has considerably damaged shareholders and 
investors trust in the market; 
(20) Others: 
In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting of 
such security is appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
2. In the event that both shares with voting rights and shares without voting rights whose issuer 
is identical are listed, if said shares with voting rights falls under any of the items of 
Paragraph 1 (except when the Exchange deems appropriate in cases where said stock falls 
under Item (16) of the preceding paragraph), the Exchange shall delist said shares without 
voting rights. 
 
Rule 602.  Delisting Criteria for Listed Foreign Companies 
1. Where a listed foreign stock, etc. (excluding cases of multiple listing) falls under any of the 
following items, it shall be delisted. Details of Item (3) in this case shall be provided by the 
Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Nonconformity to continued listing criteria: 
In cases where a listed foreign stock, etc. fails to meet the criteria specified in each item 
of Rule 502, Paragraph 1 in accordance with the classification referred to in such item, 
and when the listed foreign stock, etc. continues failing to meet such criteria within the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
82 
period specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Paragraph 3 of the same rule; 
(2) Handling by a designated book-entry transfer institution: 
Where such security has ceased to be handled in the custody and book-entry transfer 
operation of listed foreign stocks, etc. or the book-entry transfer operation of a designated 
book-entry transfer institution; 
(3) Restriction on transfer of shares, etc.: 
Where a listed foreign company imposes a transfer restriction on a listed foreign stock, 
etc. issued by such company; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases 
where the transfer restriction on a stock, etc. is deemed necessary to receive the 
application of the provisions of laws and regulations of a home country or in cases 
equivalent thereto where the details are deemed not to hinder trading in the market of the 
Exchange; or 
  (4) Termination of deposit agreement, etc.: 
Where a deposit agreement, etc. prescribed in Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Item (4) (including 
cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 212, Paragraph 1, Item (3) or Rule 218, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2)) or any other agreement is terminated if a listed foreign company 
is an issuer of such listed foreign stock depositary receipt, etc.; provided, however, that 
the same shall not apply to cases where such deposit agreement, etc. or any other 
agreement is terminated because of a change in a depository, etc. pertaining to a listed 
foreign stock depositary receipt, etc.  
(5) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. falls under any of Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (10), 
Items (13) and Items (15) through (20) of the preceding rule. 
2. Where a listed foreign stock, etc. (limited to cases of multiple listing) falls under any of the 
following items, it shall be delisted. Details of Item (2) in this case shall be provided by the 
Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Nonconformity to continued listing criteria: 
In cases where a listed foreign stock, etc. fails to meet the criteria specified in each item 
of Rule 502, Paragraph 2 in accordance with the classification referred to in such item, 
and when the listed foreign stock, etc. continues failing to meet such criteria within the 
period specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Paragraph 3 of the same rule; 
(2) Delisting, etc. from a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.: 
Where delisting of a listed foreign stock, etc. (including a foreign stock depositary receipt 
which represents rights pertaining to a listed foreign stock in cases of the listed foreign 
stock, and including a foreign stock pertaining to rights represented by a listed foreign 
stock depositary receipt in cases of the listed foreign stock depositary receipt; the same 
shall apply in this item) from a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. is decided or 
where the Exchange deems that circumstances have changed to a degree where market 
prices, etc. of such listed foreign stock, etc. on a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc. cannot be obtained immediately; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where delisting is deemed to be inappropriate in consideration of reasons for 
delisting such listed foreign stock, etc. from a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. 
or in consideration of the trading status at the Exchange and any other event; or 
(3) Where a listed foreign stock, etc. falls under any of Items (2) through (5) of the preceding 
paragraph. 
 
Section 2 
Procedures, etc. Pertaining to Delisting 
 
Rule 603.  Application for Examination, etc. Pertaining to Delisting 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
83 
1. The Exchange shall conduct examinations on whether or not a restructuring plan is as 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (3) 
(including cases falling under Paragraph1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the preceding 
rule) based on an application from a listed company. If such application has not been made, 
the Exchange shall deem that the listed company falls under Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (3). 
2. The Exchange shall conduct an examination whether or not a listed security is in conformity 
with the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules as prescribed by Rule 601, Paragraph 1, 
Item (5) (including cases falling under Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the 
preceding rule; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule) based on an application from a 
listed company. If such application has not been made (including cases where it is clear such 
an application will not be made), the Exchange shall deem that the listed company falls under 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (5). 
3. The Exchange shall conduct examinations on whether a listed company meets the criteria 
specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (10), b. 
(including the cases pursuant to Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the 
preceding rule; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule) based on an application from 
such a listed company. If such an application has not been made (including cases where it is 
clear that such an application will not be made), the Exchange shall deem that the listed 
company falls under Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (10), b. 
4. The provisions of each paragraph of Rule 204, each paragraph of Rule 210 and each 
paragraph of Rule 216 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a listed company 
makes application pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs. 
5. The Exchange may request a listed company to submit a report or materials which should 
serve as useful reference or provide any other cooperation for such examination if the 
Exchange deems it necessary for examinations provided in Paragraphs 1 through 3. 
 
Rule 604.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed stock, etc. issued by a listed company to request certified public 
accountants, etc. who perform audit certifications, etc. for financial statements, etc. or interim 
financial statements, etc., or interim reviews for quarterly financial statements, etc. 
prescribed in Rule 404, Paragraph 2 (including those who have previously been said certified 
public accountants, etc.; the same shall apply in the following paragraph) to provide 
explanations or other information regarding a particular issue, the listed company shall 
cooperate in this process.  
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to a listed company for the purpose of requesting said 
certified public accountants, etc. to provide explanations or other information regarding a 
particular issue pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, said listed company 
shall promptly submit a document stating that it agrees to said certified public accountants, 
etc. providing said explanations or other information. 
 
Rule 605.  Examination Based on Provisions Pertaining to Delisting 
The Exchange shall prescribe necessary matters concerning examination of the basis of the 
provisions of Rules 601 and Rule 602 in a guideline for listing supervision, etc. 
 
Rule 606.  Delisting Application 
Where a listed company makes an application for delisting a listed stock, etc. issued by itself, 
it shall submit "Delisting Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
84 
 
Rule 607.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed stock, etc. is decided shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 608.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed stock, etc. is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed stock, 
etc. as a security under supervision to make investors aware of that fact pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 609.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed stock, etc. is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed 
stock, etc. as a security to be delisted for a period until the day before the delisting date pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 610.  Erasure from the Registry 
Where the Exchange delists a listed stock, etc., it shall delete descriptions in the listed security 
registry on the delisting date. 
 
Chapter 7 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 1 
Listing Fees, etc. 
 
Rule 701.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An applicant for initial listing of a stock, etc. and a subscription warrant security and a listed 
company shall pay a listing examination fee, initial listing fee, annual listing fee and other fees 
relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Section 2 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 702.  Details on Examination Pertaining to Stock, etc. Listed Associated with Whole 
Acquisition 
With respect to examinations of transfer of a market segment and delisting pertaining to a stock, 
etc. which has been listed in application for the provisions of Rule 303, if the Exchange deems 
this appropriate, the Exchange shall conduct these examinations by deeming that such stock, 
etc. is the same as the stock, etc. delisted in exchange for such stock, etc. 
 
Rule 703.  Recognition of the Principal Market 
With respect to the application of the regulations of the Exchange for a foreign stock, etc., the 
Exchange shall recognize whether or not it will be the principal market for such foreign stock, 
etc. in consideration of the status of trading in such foreign stock, etc., and whether or not it is 
listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. 
 
Rule 704.  Listing Date in Cases of Absorption-type Mergers, etc. of Listed Domestic 
Companies, etc. by Other Listed Domestic Companies 
Details of a listing date in cases where a listed domestic company carries out an absorption-
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
85 
type merger with another listed domestic company or a domestic company (excluding listed 
domestic companies) whose domestic stock is listed on any other financial instruments 
exchange in Japan and other cases shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules.  
 
Rule 705.  Deleted.  
 
Rule 706.  Succession at the Time of Technical Listing 
Where a listed company is a company listed pursuant to the provisions of technical listing, the 
Exchange shall apply provisions prescribed in the Enforcement Rules to such listed company 
(including a listed stock, etc. whose issuer is such listed company; the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this rule) by deeming that such listed company is the same as the company 
(including a stock, etc. whose issuer is such company) delisted pursuant to such provisions of 
technical listing; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the Exchange 
deems it inappropriate. 
 
Rule 707.  Stock, etc. Issued by Company Whose Revitalization is Supported by the 
Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan 
1. Where the Exchange has delisted stock, etc. (excluding preferred stock, etc.; hereinafter the 
same shall apply in this Rule) issued by a company for which the Regional Economy 
Vitalization Corporation of Japan (hereinafter referred to as "REVIC") made a revitalization 
support decision (hereinafter referred to as a "supported company"; see Notes 1 and 2 below), 
and the company makes an application for initial listing of its stock, etc. on the Prime Market 
with a base business year (meaning the most recent business year for which the financial 
statements, etc. are presented in the financial information section of the "Annual Securities 
Report for Initial Listing Application" specified in Rule 210, Paragraph 2; the same shall 
apply hereinafter in this rule) that starts within five years from the day of the announcement 
by REVIC of its decision to support the revitalization of said company (see Note 3 below), 
the provisions of Rule 211 shall apply by reading Item (5) of the same rule as follows: 
 
(Note 1) Such decision means the revitalization support decision prescribed in Article 
25, Paragraph 4 of the Act on Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of 
Japan (Act No. 63 of 2009); the same shall apply hereinafter.  
(Note 2) Such company shall not include a company for which the support decision is 
withdrawn after such decision was made, and a company for which a 
purchase decision, etc. (meaning the purchase decision, etc. prescribed in 
Article 31, Paragraph 1 of the Act on Regional Economy Vitalization 
Corporation of Japan; the same shall apply hereinafter) is not made with 
regard to the debt of said company. 
(Note 3) Excluding business years that start after the end of the business year that 
includes the day on which REVIC completed all operations pertaining to the 
revitalization support decision on the supported company. 
 
(5) Profits or sales: 
Either a. or b. shall be satisfied: 
     a. The profits in the last one (1) year ("last" years are counted from the end of the base 
business year (meaning the most recent business year for which financial statements, 
etc. are presented in the financial information section of the "Annual Securities Report 
for Initial Listing Application" specified in Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule; the same 
shall apply hereinafter in this section) shall be JPY 1.25 billion or more; or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
86 
     b. The amount of sales in the last one (1) year shall be JPY 10 billion or more and the 
market capitalization as of the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 100 billion 
or more. 
2.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
application of the provisions of Rule 211, which is applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 308, 
Paragraph 2 in cases where a listed company which is a supported company makes an 
application for transfer of its stock, etc. to the Prime Market in a business year whose 
most recent business year starts within five years from the day on which REVIC 
announces the revitalization support decision on said company (excluding business years 
that start after the end of the business year which includes the day on which REVIC 
completed all operations pertaining to the revitalization support decision on said listed 
company). 
3.  For a stock issued by a listed company which is a supported company, the provisions of     
Rule 601, Paragraph 1 shall apply by reading Item (1) of the same paragraph as follows. 
 
(1) Nonconformity to continued listing criteria: 
Where a listed domestic company fails to meet the criteria specified in each item of Rule 
501, Paragraph 1 in accordance with classification referred to in each such item, and 
when the listed domestic company continues failing to meet such criteria within the 
period specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed in Paragraph 3 of the same rule; 
provided, however, that in cases where a listed domestic company does not meet the 
criteria specified in Paragraph 1, Item (1), d., Item (2), d. or Item (3), e. of the same rule, 
and the amount of net assets of listed domestic company plans to be the state of positive 
through revitalizing the listed domestic company's business based on the revitalization 
support decision by REVIC (limited to cases deemed appropriate by the Exchange), it 
shall be the cases where the amount of net assets of the listed domestic company fails to 
be the state of positive within the period specified in the Enforcement Rules as prescribed 
in Paragraph 3 of the same rule, and when it is confirmed that REVIC shall  not make a 
purchase decision, etc. pertaining to debt of the listed company. 
 
Rule 708. Special Provisions for Initial Listing Application Procedures accompanying the 
Great East Japan Earthquake 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 202, Rule 204, Rule 210, and Rule 216, in cases 
where an initial listing applicant conducted initial listing application or preliminary 
application prior to the date of such initial listing application, and will conduct initial listing 
application or preliminary application within 3 years counting from the most recent initial 
listing application day or preliminary application day if the initial listing application or 
preliminary application prior to such initial listing application or preliminary application 
did not reach initial listing due to circumstances the Exchange deemed a result of the Great 
East Japan Earthquake, such initial listing applicant may omit forms deemed appropriate by 
the Exchange from those to be submitted.2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 202, 
Rule 204, Rule 210, and Rule 216, in cases where the Exchange deems an initial listing 
applicant does not reach initial listing by the deadline specially prescribed by the Exchange 
due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, if such initial listing applicant wishes to continue 
with listing examination, such initial listing applicant shall resubmit the documents deemed 
necessary by the Exchange, and the Exchange shall conduct listing application based on 
such documents. 
 
Rule 709.  Special Provisions on Initial Requirements for Domestic Companies in view 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
87 
of the Great East Japan Earthquake 
Where an initial listing applicant (limited to an entity which does not meet Rule 205, Item (6), 
c. (including cases pursuant to Rule 211, Item (6)) or Rule 217, Item (5), b. due to the Great 
East Japan Earthquake) applies for initial listing of a domestic stock, the handling of false 
statements or adverse opinions, etc. shall be specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 710.  Special Provisions on Examination of Transfer of Market Segments in view of 
the Great East Japan Earthquake 
The provisions of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a listed 
domestic company applies for transfer of a market segment of its listed domestic stock. 
 
Rule 711.  Special Provisions on Initial Requirements for Domestic Companies in view of 
the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake 
Where an initial listing applicant (limited to an entity who does not meet Rule 205, Item (6), c. 
(including cases pursuant to Rule 211, Item (6)) or Rule 217, Item (5), b. due to the 2016 
Kumamoto Earthquake) applies for initial listing of a domestic stock, the handling of false 
statements or adverse opinions, etc. shall be specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 712.  Special Provisions on Examination of Transfer of Market Segments in view of 
the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake 
The provisions of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a listed 
domestic company applies for transfer of a market segment of its listed domestic stock. 
 
Rule 713.  Special Provisions on Initial Requirements in Consideration of the Impact of 
Spread of COVID-19 
Where an initial listing applicant (limited to an entity which does not meet Rule 205, Item (6),  
c. (including cases pursuant to Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Item (1), Rule 211, Item (6) or Rule 212, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2)) or Rule 217, Item (5),  b.(including cases pursuant to Rule 218, Item 
(1)) due to the spread of COVID-19) applies for initial listing, the handling of false statements 
or adverse opinions, etc. shall be specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 714. Special Provisions on Examination of Transfer of Market Segments in 
Consideration of the Impact of Spread of COVID-19 
The provisions of the preceding Rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a listed 
company applies for transfer of a market segment of its listed stock. 
 
Rule 715. Special Provisions on Initial Requirements pertaining to Initial Listing 
accompanied by Large Scale Public Offering or Secondary Distribution 
1. Where the total amount of public offering or secondary distribution of a stock, etc. 
pertaining to initial listing application during the period from initial listing application day 
until the day one day prior to the listing date is expected to reach JPY 100 billion or more, 
and where an initial listing applicant submits the plan describing its initiatives and the 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria specified in Rule 205, 
Item (2), c., the provisions of Rule 205 shall apply by reading Item (2), c. of the same rule 
as follows.  
 
c. The number of tradable shares is expected to reach 10% or higher of the number of 
listed stocks, etc. by the time of listing. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
88 
2. Where the total amount of public offering or secondary distribution of a stock, etc. 
pertaining to initial listing application during the period from initial listing application day 
until the day one day prior to the listing date is expected to reach JPY 100 billion or more, 
and where an initial listing applicant submits the plan describing its initiatives and the 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria specified in Rule 211, 
Item (2), c. , the provisions of Rule 211 shall apply by reading Item (2), c. of the same rule 
as follows.  
 
c. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 10% or higher of the number 
of listed stocks, etc. by the time of listing. 
 
3. Where the total amount public offering or secondary distribution of a stock, etc. pertaining 
to initial listing application during the period from initial listing application day until the 
day one day prior to the listing date shall be expected to reach JPY 100 billion or more, and 
where an initial listing applicant submits the plan describing its initiatives and the 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria specified in Rule 217, 
Item (2), c., the provisions of Rule 217 shall apply by reading Item (2), c. of the same rule 
as follows. 
 
c. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 10% or higher of the number 
of listed stocks, etc. by the time of listing. 
 
4. With regard to the application of Rule 501 pertaining to a listed domestic company which 
is listed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, the provisions of Rule 
501 shall apply by reading Paragraphs 3 through 5 of the same rule as follows. 
 
3. In cases where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that fails to meet the 
criteria specified in each item of Paragraph 1, the listed domestic company shall submit 
the plans within three months calculated from falling into such a situation (this shall 
not apply to cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for the listed domestic 
company to disclose the plan within three months due to reasons not attributable to the 
listed domestic company, such as act of providence) which describes its initiatives and 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria within the period 
specified by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that this shall not apply to 
cases where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that fails to meet the 
criteria specified in Item (1), b. (c), Item (2), b. (c), or Item (3), b. (c) and where the 
listed domestic company has submitted the plans prescribed in Rule 715, Paragraphs 
1 through 3. 
4. During the period until meeting the criteria specified in each item of Paragraph 1, if 
there arises any events that requires a change or correction to the details of the plans, 
submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph or 
Rule 715, Paragraphs 1 through 3, a listed domestic company shall submit the plans 
after the corrections or changes immediately.  
5. In cases where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that fails to meet the 
criteria specified in Paragraph 1, Item (1), d, Item (2), d. or Item (3), e., during the 
period from submitting the plan prescribed in the Paragraph 3 until meeting such 
criteria, the listed domestic company shall submit the documents describing the 
progress of the plan prescribed in Paragraph 3 or Rule 715, Paragraphs 1 through 3, 
before disclosing the details of the financial results for each business year, each interim 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
89 
accounting period or each cumulative quarterly accounting period (excluding the 
second cumulative quarterly accounting period), or each consolidated accounting year, 
each interim consolidated accounting period or each cumulative quarterly consolidated 
accounting period (excluding the second cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting 
period) as specified by Rule 404, Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2. In addition, in cases 
where a listed domestic company falls into a situation that fails to meet the criteria 
specified in Paragraph 1, Item (1), b. (c), Item (2), b.(c) or Item (3), b.(c), during the 
period from submitting the plan prescribed in the Paragraph 3 or Rule 715, Paragraphs 
1 through 3 until meeting such criteria, the listed domestic company shall submit the 
documents describing the progress of the plan prescribed in Paragraph 3 or Rule 715, 
Paragraphs 1 through 3 within three months calculated from the end of each business 
year. 
 
 
Part 3 
Preferred Stocks, etc. 
 
Chapter 1 
Preferred Stocks, etc. 
 
Rule 801.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a preferred stock, etc. shall be made upon application by a listed company 
which is the issuer of such preferred stock, etc. 
2. Where the listed company falls under any of the following items, a preferred stock to be 
issued by a company may be applied for an initial listing even before the company's 
establishment, if such an application is made after the resolution at a general shareholders 
meeting of a listed company which carries out a consolidation-type merger, share transfer or 
incorporation-type company split as prescribed in each of the following items. Initial listing 
application in this case shall be made by such listed company: 
(1) In the cases referred to in Rule 208, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to the part pertaining 
to a share transfer made by a listed company) and a stock, etc. of a company to be 
established is subject to the application of Item (1) or Item (3) of the same rule; 
(2) In the cases referred to in Rule 214, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to the part pertaining 
to a share transfer made by a listed company) and a stock, etc. of a company to be 
established is subject to the application of Item (1) or Item (3) of the same rule; or 
(3) In the cases referred to in Rule 220, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to the part pertaining 
to a share transfer made by a listed company); or 
(4) Where a listed company carries out an incorporation-type company split which is a spin-
off type company split, and initial listing application is made for a stock, etc. issued by a 
company to be established by such a spin-off type company split before said spin-off 
type company split  
3. In cases where a preferred stock, etc. is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from 
the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, 
said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. The provisions of the preceding three (3) paragraphs shall not apply to a preferred stock, etc. 
to be listed on the basis of the listing order as in Article 125 of the Act. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
90 
5. Examination of a preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application shall be made 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 804 and 805. 
 
Rule 802.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application, an 
issuer of the preferred stock, etc. pertaining to such initial listing application shall submit a 
"Listing Agreement for a Preferred Stock, etc." predetermined by the Exchange as specified 
by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that submission shall not be required if an 
issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. on the Exchange makes an application for initial listing 
of another preferred stock, etc. 
2. The listing agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the listing 
date of a preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the security in the listed security registry on the listing date of a 
preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application. 
4. Preferred stock, etc. shall be assigned to the same market segment as that for the domestic 
stock of a listed company which issues such preferred stock, etc.  
 
Rule 803.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to apply for initial listing of a preferred stock, etc. shall submit a 
"Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange. 
2. An "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" and other documents specified 
by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph. 
3. An issuer of a preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application shall, if the 
Exchange approves listing of such preferred stock, etc., agree that the Exchange makes such 
documents available for public inspection before and after the listing as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules, out of the documents submitted pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 801, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of 
the initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-
by-case basis), out of the attached documents specified by Paragraph 2, will suffice, if they 
are submitted immediately after submission becomes possible. 
5. An issuer of a subsidiary-linked dividend stock which applies for initial listing of such 
subsidiary-linked dividend stock shall, if the Exchange approves listing of such subsidiary-
linked dividend stock, submit a report containing matters concerning the corporate 
governance of a subsidiary pertaining to such subsidiary-linked dividend stock (hereinafter 
referred to as "subject subsidiary") as specified by the Enforcement Rules and shall agree 
that the Exchange makes such report (including materials containing its details) available for 
public inspection before and after the listing. 
6. Out of the issuers of subsidiary-linked dividend stocks which apply for initial listing of such 
subsidiary-linked dividend stocks, issuers for which the Exchange deems the structure of the 
corporate group of the subject subsidiary is peculiar shall submit a report containing risk 
information pertaining to the structure of the corporate group of such subject subsidiary and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such report available for public inspection before and 
after the listing. 
7. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an issuer of a 
preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application to submit an informational 
report or materials in addition to the documents prescribed in each of the preceding 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
91 
paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
  
Rule 804.  Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing examination of a preferred stock, etc. shall be carried out on preferred stock, etc. that 
meets each of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by 
the Enforcement Rules:  
(1) The issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is an issuer of a listed 
share with voting rights; 
(2) The security for which an initial listing application is made shall satisfy the following a. 
through e.: 
a. The number of holders owing one (1) unit or more of a listed preferred stock, etc. shall 
be expected to reach 400 or more by the time of listing; 
b. The following (a)and (b) are met: 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by the 
time of listing; and 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares as of the listing date shall be expected to 
reach JPY 1 billion or more;  
 
c.  It shall be required that the relevant security (limited to that referred to in Article 2, 
Paragraph 1 of the Book-Entry Transfer Act) is subject to the book-entry transfer 
operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or is expected to become so 
by the time of listing; and  
   d. It shall be required that transfer of a preferred stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing 
application is not restricted or is expected not to be restricted by the time of listing; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where transfer of a preferred 
stock, etc. is restricted pursuant to the provisions of special laws specified by the 
Enforcement Rules at the same time the details of the restriction are deemed not to 
hinder trading in the market of the Exchange. 
e.  Rule 205, Item (9) shall be satisfied. 
 
Rule 805.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a preferred stock, etc. shall be carried out on the matters referred to 
in each of the following items with respect to an of the security for which an initial listing 
application is made: 
(1) Profitability: 
 An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made shall be expected to 
record profits sufficient to pay surplus dividend pertaining to such a security; 
(2) Appropriateness of disclosure of corporate information, etc.: 
 An issuer shall be in a status where corporate information, etc. can be disclosed in an 
appropriate manner; and 
(3) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of the public 
interest or the protection of investors. 
2. Examination of matters referred to in each item in the preceding paragraph shall be carried 
out on the basis of the documents submitted by the issuer of a security for which initial listing 
application is made pursuant to the provisions of each paragraph of Rule 803 and questions, 
etc. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination provided in the preceding paragraph shall be 
prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
92 
Rule 806.  Disclosure of Corporate Information 
1. Timely disclosure, etc. carried out by an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. shall be as 
prescribed by this rule in addition to Part 2, Chapter 4. 
2. An issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. for which there is a provision allowing it to be 
acquired by the issuer shall, where the details of financial results are disclosed on the basis 
of the provisions of Rule 404, Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2, also disclose the details of the 
policy of such acquisition. 
3. Where a body which decides the business execution of an issuer of a listed preferred stock, 
etc. as in the preceding paragraph decides to change its policy regarding the acquisition from 
the one last publicly announced, the body shall disclose the details immediately pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
4. Where an issuer of a listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock falls under any of the following 
items (concerning the matter prescribed in Item (1) and the fact prescribed in Item (2), 
excluding cases falling under the criteria prescribed by the Enforcement Rules as those which 
have an effect of minor significance on investment decision of such listed subsidiary-linked 
dividend stock), the issuer shall disclose the details immediately pursuant to the provisions 
of the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where a body which decides the business execution of a subject subsidiary decides 
important matters concerning operation, business or assets or a subsidiary-linked 
dividend stock (including cases where the body decides not to carry out a matter 
pertaining to such decision); 
(2) Where an important fact concerning operation, business or assets of a subject subsidiary 
or a subsidiary-linked dividend stock arises; 
(3) Where the details of financial results of a subject subsidiary’s business year or interim 
accounting period, or consolidated accounting year or interim consolidated accounting 
period are fixed; 
(3)-2 Where the details of financial results of a subject subsidiary's cumulative quarterly 
accounting period (excluding the second cumulative quarterly accounting period) or 
cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period (excluding the second cumulative 
quarterly consolidated accounting period) are fixed; 
(4) Where there occurs a difference (limited to those falling under the criteria specified by 
the Enforcement Rules as matters which have a material impact on investment decisions 
of such listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock) in forecast value newly calculated by 
such subject subsidiary or financial results for such business year compared to the last 
published forecast value (where there is no such value, published actual value for the 
previous business year) with respect to sales, operating profits, ordinary profits or net 
income of such subject subsidiary; or 
(5) Where a subject subsidiary calculates a forecast value of surplus dividend. 
5. An issuer of a listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock shall disclose matters concerning a 
controlling shareholder, etc. as prescribed by the Exchange pertaining to such subject 
subsidiary, where the issuer discloses the details of financial results pertaining to a business 
year on the basis of the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
6. An issuer of a listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock shall disclose the details immediately  
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, where a consolidated subsidiary for an 
immediately prior consolidated accounting year of a subject subsidiary falls under any of the 
following items (excluding cases falling under the criteria as prescribed by the Enforcement 
Rules as matters which have an effect of minor significance on investment decisions of such 
listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock): 
(1) Where a body which decides the business execution of a consolidated subsidiary of a 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
93 
subject subsidiary decides important matters concerning operation, business or assets or 
a subsidiary-linked dividend stock (including cases where the body decides not to carry 
out a matter pertaining to such decision); or 
(2) Where an important fact concerning operation, business or assets of a consolidated 
subsidiary of a subject subsidiary company or the subsidiary-linked dividend stock arises. 
7. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, and Rules 413 through 416 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 2 through the preceding 
paragraph. 
 
Rule 807.  Report Concerning Corporate Governance 
1. Where any change has occurred to the details of a report including the matters regarding 
corporate governance specified by the Enforcement Rules, an issuer of a listed subsidiary-
linked dividend stock shall submit a report after the change without delay. In this case, said 
issuer of the listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock shall agree that the Exchange makes 
said report after the change available for public inspection. 
2. In cases of the first sentence of the preceding paragraph, if the details of such change pertain 
to a matter specified by the Enforcement Rules, an issuer may submit a report after such 
change without delay after the day of the first annual general shareholders meeting after 
such change. 
 
Rule 807-2.  Report Concerning Risk Information Pertaining to Structure of Corporate 
Group 
Where any change has occurred to the details of a report prescribed in Rule 803, Paragraph 6 
(meaning, if a report after a change is submitted pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, 
said report after the change), an issuer of such listed subsidiary-linked dividend stock  shall 
submit a report after the change without delay and shall agree that the Exchange makes said 
report after the change available for public inspection; provided, however, that the same shall 
not apply to cases where the Exchange deems that such change in details is of minor 
significance. 
 
Rule 808.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. falls under any of the following items, all 
securities such as preferred stocks, etc. issued by such issuer shall be delisted. The timing of 
delisting in this case shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) In cases prescribed by the Enforcement Rules that an issuer carries out a material breach 
concerning a listing agreement pertaining to a preferred stock, etc. or where an issuer 
ceases to be a party to such listing agreement; or 
(2) Where a stock, etc. issued by the issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. falls under the 
criteria prescribed in any of Rules 601 or 602 (excluding cases where the Exchange deems 
appropriate, out of the cases falling under of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (16) (including 
cases pursuant to Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, Item (3)). 
2. Where a listed preferred stock, etc. falls under any of the following items (in cases (limited 
to cases that the Exchange deems appropriate) where there are provisions to the effect that 
the issuer of the listed preferred stock, etc. will or may acquire said listed preferred stock, 
etc. upon the arrival of a specified deadline), Item (4) shall be excluded.), it shall be delisted. 
In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Number of holders of preferred stock, etc.: 
 Where the number of holders having a unit or more of a preferred stock, etc. is less than 
400 as of the end of a business year of a listed company and the number fails to reach 400 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
94 
or more within a year; provided, however, that where the general market condition rapidly 
deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that these criteria are not appropriate, the 
Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by- case basis; 
(2) Tradable shares: 
Where a listed preferred stock, etc. falls under either of the following a. or b.; provided, 
however, that where the general market condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the 
Exchange deems that these criteria are not appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the 
criteria on a case- by-case basis: 
a. Where the number of tradable shares is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business 
year of a listed company and the number fails to reach 2,000 units or more within a 
year; or 
 b. Where the market capitalization of the tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of 
the end of a business year of a listed company and it fails to reach JPY 1 billion or 
more within a year; 
(3) Where the remaining period of a preferred stock, etc. reaches its maturity; 
(4) Where the monthly average trading volume of a listed preferred stock, etc. for six months 
prior to the end of June or prior to the end of December of every year e is less than ten 
units, and fails to reach 10 units or more within six months; provided, however, that where 
the general market condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that these 
criteria are not appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case by case basis; 
(5) Where such security (limited to those referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the Book-
Entry Transfer Act) ceases to be subject to the book-entry transfer operation of the 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(6) Where an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. attempts to make a restriction on transfer 
of a preferred stock, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where 
a restriction is imposed concerning transfer of a preferred stock, etc. on the basis of the 
provisions of special laws specified by the Enforcement Rules and, in addition, the details 
of the restriction are deemed not to hinder trading in the market of the Exchange; 
(7) Where an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc. acquires all the shares pertaining to such 
security; or 
(8) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting of 
such security is appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
3. With regards to the application of the provisions of Items (1) and (2) of the preceding 
paragraph pertaining to a listed company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end 
of a business year, the number of holders of preferred stocks, etc., the number of tradable 
shares and the market capitalization of tradable shares as of the shareholders, etc. record date 
shall be deemed to be those as of the end of the business year. 
 
Rule 808-2. Disclosure of Plan for Improvement  
Where an issuer of listed preferred stock, etc. falls under "where the number of holders having 
a unit or more of a preferred stock, etc. is less than 400 as of the end of a business year of a 
listed company" as specified in Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the preceding rule, "where the number 
of tradable shares is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business year of a listed company" 
as specified in Item (2), a. of the same paragraph, "where the market capitalization of the 
tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of the end of a business year of a listed company" 
as specified in Item (2), b. of the same paragraph or "where the monthly average trading volume 
of a listed preferred stock, etc. for six months prior to the end of June or prior to the end of 
December of every year is less than ten units" as specified in Item (4) of the same paragraph, 
the issuer shall disclose the plans within three months calculated from falling under such a 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
95 
situation (this shall not apply to cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for an issuer of 
listed preferred stock, etc. to disclose the plan within three months due to reasons not 
attributable to the issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc., such as act of providence ) which 
describes its initiatives and implementation date thereof for the purpose being the state of not 
violating the criteria specified in said each item. 
 
Rule 809.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed preferred stock, etc. is decided 
shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 810.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed preferred stock, etc. is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such 
listed preferred stock, etc. as a security under supervision to make investors aware of that fact 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 811.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed preferred stock, etc. is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such 
listed preferred stock, etc. as a security to be delisted for a period until the day before the 
delisting date pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to make investors aware of 
that fact. 
 
Rule 812.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer who makes an application for initial listing of a preferred stock, etc. and an issuer of 
a listed preferred stock, etc. shall pay a listing examination fee, initial listing fee, additional 
listing fee, annual listing fee, and other fees relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
 
Chapter 2 
Senior Securities 
 
Rule 813.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a senior security (meaning a senior beneficiary certificate which is issued 
by a subsidiary corporation (including a business trust established in the State of Delaware 
in the USA where all beneficiary certificates with voting rights are substantially held by 
such listed company) established by a listed company in a foreign country exclusively to 
raise capital for such listed company, out of beneficiary certificates of foreign investment 
trusts (limited to those classified as securities investment trusts); the same shall apply 
hereinafter) shall be carried out upon application of an issuer of such senior security and an 
entity prescribed by the Enforcement Rules as a listed company which is the parent 
corporation of an issuer of such senior security (hereinafter referred to as "subject parent 
corporation").   
2. Where the case falls under any of the following items, listing may be applied for a senior 
security issued by a subsidiary corporation of a company to be established before its 
establishment as well, limited to after the resolution of a general shareholders meeting of a 
listed company which carries out a consolidation-type merger, share transfer, or 
incorporation-type company split as prescribed in each such item. Initial listing application 
in this case shall be carried out by such listed company: 
(1) In the cases referred to in Rule 208, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
96 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to the part 
pertaining to a share transfer made by a listed company), where the stock, etc. of a 
company to be established is subject to the application of Item (1) or Item (3) of the 
same rule; 
(2) In the cases referred to in Rule 214, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to the part 
pertaining to share transfer made by a listed company), where the stock, etc. of a 
company to be established is subject to the application of Item (1) or Item (3) of the 
same rule; or 
(3) In the cases referred to in Rule 220, Item (1) (limited to parts pertaining to a 
consolidation-type merger by a listed company) or Item (3) (limited to parts pertaining 
to a share transfer made by a listed company), where the stock, etc. of a company to be 
established is subject to the application of Item (1) or Item (3) of the same rule; or 
(4) Where a listed company carries out an absorption-type company split which is a spin-
off type company split, and initial listing application is made for a stock, etc. issued by 
a company to be established by such a spin-off type company split before said spin-off 
type company split. 
3. In cases where a senior security is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from the 
date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, 
said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of a senior security pertaining to an initial listing application shall be made 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 816 and 817. 
 
Rule 814.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a senior security pertaining to an initial listing application, an issuer 
of a senior security pertaining to such initial listing application and the subject parent 
corporation shall submit "Listing Agreement for a Senior Security" predetermined by the 
Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. A listing agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall take effect on the date of the 
listing of the senior security pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall record the security in the listed security registry on the listing date of a 
senior security pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 815.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to apply for initial listing of a senior security shall submit a "Security 
Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange. 
2. "Table of a Senior Security Distribution" and other documents as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" 
prescribed by the preceding paragraph.  
3. An issuer of a senior security pertaining to an initial listing application and the subject 
parent corporation shall, where the Exchange approves listing of such senior security, agree 
that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before and after 
the listing as specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the documents submitted pursuant 
to the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 813, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of 
the initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-
by-case basis), out of the attached documents specified by Paragraph 2, will suffice, if they 
are submitted immediately after submission becomes possible.  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
97 
5. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an issuer of a 
senior security pertaining to an initial listing application or the subject parent corporation 
to submit an informational report or materials in addition to the documents prescribed in 
each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
 
Rule 816.  Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing examination of a senior security shall be carried out on senior security that meets each 
of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the 
Enforcement Rules:  
(1) The security for which an initial listing application is made shall satisfy the following a. 
through d.: 
a. The number of holders owing one (1) unit or more of a senior security shall be expected 
to reach 400 or more by the time of listing; 
b. The following (a) and (b) shall be satisfied: 
(a) The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by the 
time of listing; and 
(b) The market capitalization of tradable shares as of the listing date shall be expected to 
reach JPY 1 billion or more 
(c)  
c. It shall be required that transfer of a senior security pertaining to an initial listing 
application is not restricted or is expected not to be restricted by the time of listing; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where it is deemed necessary 
to impose transfer restriction on a senior security in order for the application to satisfy 
the provisions of laws in a home country or where it is equivalent to this and, in addition, 
where the details of the restriction are deemed not to hinder trading in the market of the 
Exchange; and 
d. It shall be required that the relevant security is subject to the book-entry transfer operation 
for foreign stocks, etc. of a designated book-entry transfer institution, or it is expected to 
be handled by the time of listing; and 
(2) An issuer of a senior security shall be in conformity with Rule 205, Item (6) (limited to 
where the issuer of such senior security prepares financial documents). 
 
Rule 817.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a senior security shall be carried out on the matters referred to in 
each of the following items: 
(1) The subject parent corporation is deemed to be the substantial issuer of the senior 
security; and 
(2) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of public interest 
or the protection of investors. 
2. Examination of the matters referred to in each item of the preceding paragraph shall be 
carried out on the basis of the documents submitted by the issuer of the security for which 
an initial listing application is made and the subject parent corporation pursuant to the 
provisions of each paragraph of Rule 815 and questions, etc. 
3. Necessary matters concerning listing examination defined in the preceding paragraph shall 
be prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
 
Rule 818.  Ensuring Appropriate Shareholder Services and Profit Distribution Payment 
Works 
An issuer of a listed senior security shall ensure that shareholder services specified by the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
98 
Enforcement Rules or any other shareholder services and profit distribution payment works for 
a beneficial shareholder of foreign stocks, etc. will be carried out appropriately. 
 
Rule 819.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 820.  Selection of Agents, etc. of Issuers of Listed Senior Securities 
An issuer of a listed senior security shall select the subject parent corporation of a listed senior 
security (where such subject parent corporation is a listed foreign company, an entity selected 
by such listed foreign company pursuant to the provisions of Rule 426) as an entity with the 
authority to act as a proxy of the issuer of such listed senior security with respect to all acts in 
relation to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 821.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where an issuer of a listed senior security or the subject parent corporation falls under any 
of the following items, all senior securities issued by such an issuer shall be delisted. In this 
case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules:  
(1) Where an issuer of a listed senior security or the subject parent corporation commits a 
material violation concerning a listing agreement pertaining to a senior security or 
where they cease to become a party of such listing agreement; 
(2) Where a stock, etc. issued by the subject parent corporation of a listed senior security 
falls under the criteria prescribed by any of Rules 601 or 602 (excluding cases where 
the Exchange deems appropriate, out of the cases falling under Rule 601, Paragraph 1, 
Item (16) (including cases pursuant to Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (5) or Paragraph 2, 
Item (3))); 
(3) Where an issuer of a listed senior security, etc. falls under any of Item (2), Item (3) 
(excluding cases where the proviso of the same item applies), Item (7) or Item (8) of 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1; or 
(4) Where the subject parent corporation of a listed senior security is deemed not to be a 
substantial issuer of a listed senior security. 
2. Where a listed senior security falls under any of the following items, it shall be delisted. 
Details of each such item and the timing of delisting in this case shall be provided by the 
Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Number of senior security holders: 
Where the number of holders having one (1) unit or more of a senior security is less 
than 400 as of the end of a business year of an issuer of a listed senior security and the 
number fails to reach 400 or more within a year; provided, however, that where the 
general market condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that this 
criteria is not appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case by case basis; 
(2) Tradable shares: 
Where an issuer of a listed senior security or the subject parent corporation falls under 
either of the following a. or b.; provided, however, that where the general market 
condition rapidly deteriorates, and when the Exchange deems that the criteria is not 
appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by-case basis: 
a. Where the number of tradable shares is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business 
year of an issuer of a listed senior security and the number fails to reach 2,000 units 
or more within a year; or 
  b. Where the market capitalization of the tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of 
the end of a business year of an issuer of a listed senior security and it fails to reach 
JPY 1 billion or more within a year;  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
99 
  Where all listed senior securities are decided to be redeemed; 
(3) Where a listed senior security ceases to be subject to the handling of book-entry transfer 
operation for listed foreign stocks, etc. of a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(4) Where an issuer of a listed senior security attempts to impose a restriction on transfer 
of a senior security; provided, however that the same shall not apply to cases where it is 
deemed necessary to impose transfer restriction on a senior security in order for the 
application to satisfy the provisions of laws of a home country or where it is equivalent 
to this and, in addition, where the details of the restriction does not deemed to hinder 
trading in the market of the Exchange; or 
(5) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting of 
such security is appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
 
Rule 821-2 Disclosure of Plan for Improvement 
Where an issuer of a listed senior security falls under "where the number of holders having one 
(1) unit or more of a senior security is less than 400 as of the end of a business year of an issuer 
of a listed senior security" as specified in Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the preceding rule, "where 
the number of tradable shares is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business year of an 
issuer of a listed senior security" as specified in Item (2), a. of the same paragraph, "where the 
market capitalization of the tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of the end of a business 
year of an issuer of a listed senior security" as specified in Item (2), b. of the same paragraph, 
the issuer shall disclose the plans within three months calculated from falling under such a 
situation (this shall not apply to cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for an issuer of a 
listed senior security to disclose the plan within three months due to reasons not attributable to 
the issuer of a listed senior security, such as act of providence ) which describes its initiatives 
and implementation date thereof for the purpose of being the state of not violating the criteria 
specified in said each item.. 
 
Rule 822.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed senior security is decided shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 823.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed senior security is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed 
senior security as a security under supervision to make investors aware of that fact pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 824.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed senior security is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed 
senior security as a security to be delisted for a period until the day before the delisting date 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 825.  Fees Relating to Listing 
The subject parent corporation which applies for initial listing of a senior security and the 
subject parent corporation of a listed senior security shall pay an initial listing fee, annual listing 
fee and other fees relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Chapter 3 
Preferred Equity Investment Securities 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
100 
Rule 826.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a preferred equity investment security shall be made based on an 
application from an issuer of said preferred equity investment security. 
2. The provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to an initial 
listing application for a preferred equity investment security. In this case, "a general 
shareholders meeting" in the same paragraph shall be "a general meeting of ordinary equity 
investors (meaning a general meeting of ordinary equity investors as prescribed by the 
Preferred Equity Investment Act, and where a resolution of a general meeting of preferred 
equity investors (meaning a general meeting of preferred equity investors as prescribed by 
the Preferred Equity Investment Act) is required, it means a general meeting of ordinary 
equity investors and a general meeting of preferred equity investors)". 
3. In cases where a preferred equity investment security is not initially listed within one (1) 
year counting from the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2, which is applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 1 or the preceding paragraph, said initial listing application shall 
be invalid. 
4. Examination of a preferred equity investment security pertaining to initial listing 
application shall be made pursuant to the provisions of rule 830 and Rule 831. 
 
Rule 827.  Preliminary Application 
1. An entity that intends to make an initial listing application of a preferred equity investment  
 security (excluding an entity subject to the provisions of Rule 832) may make a preliminary 
application by submitting an "Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application" that 
contains such matters as the day of intention  to make an initial listing application, and 
documents prepared in a manner equivalent to documents necessary for initial listing 
application (it shall suffice to prepare those that can be submitted).  
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial 
listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 201, Paragraph 2, which is 
applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 or the preceding 
paragraph" shall be "the date when the  preliminary application is made pursuant to 
provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following rule", and "said initial listing application" shall 
be "said preliminary application and any initial listing application which has been made 
within one (1) year counting from the date of said preliminary listing application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange shall make examination as to whether it has the likelihood of meeting the 
provisions of Rules 830 and Rule 831. 
4. The provisions of Rule 829, Paragraph 9 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
examination pursuant to the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 828.  Listing Agreements, etc.  
1. Where the Exchange lists a preferred equity investment security pertaining to an initial 
listing application, the issuer of the preferred equity investment security pertaining to such 
initial listing application (hereinafter referred to as the "initial listing applicant for a 
preferred equity investment security") shall submit a "listing agreement for preferred 
equity investment security " prescribed by the Exchange and specified by the Enforcement 
Rules. 
2. The listing agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall take effect on the listing 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
101 
date of the preferred equity investment security pertaining to the initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall make an entry of the description and other matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of the preferred equity 
investment security pertaining to the initial listing application. 
 
Rule 829.  Documents to be Submitted, etc. Pertaining to Initial Listing Application1. 
An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security shall, when it makes an 
initial listing application, submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined 
by the Exchange which contains the trade name or corporate name of such an applicant, the 
name, class, and number of shares to be issued of the stock, etc. pertaining to the initial 
listing application, and other matters specified by the Enforcement Rules as the details of 
the initial listing applicant and a "Written Oath Concerning Initial Listing Application" 
predetermined by the Exchange as specified in the Enforcement Rules. 
2. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security shall attach the articles 
of incorporation, "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" containing 
matters concerning the business group to which the initial listing applicant belongs and the 
status of its accounts, other important matters, etc. concerning the details of the business, 
and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules to the Security Initial Listing 
Application Form as prescribed in the preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of 
such documents, for those  specified in the Enforcement Rules out of such documents, it 
shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-
case basis. 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant for a 
preferred equity investment security that makes an initial listing application pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 832 shall attach the articles of incorporation and other documents 
specified by the Enforcement Rules to the Security Initial Listing Application Form 
prescribed in Paragraph 1. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment of the issuer pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 826, Paragraph 2, for any documents the issuer was not able to submit 
at the time of the initial listing application (limited to those in cases where it was deemed 
inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis), out of the attached documents specified 
by the preceding two paragraphs, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them if submission 
of said documents becomes possible..  
5. Where an initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security (excluding an 
initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security who makes an initial listing 
application pursuant to the provisions of Rule 832) makes notification concerning offering 
of a security or notification concerning the secondary distribution of a security or submission 
of a notice to the Prime Minister, etc. during the period from the first day of the business 
year containing the initial listing application date to the date on which listing is to be made, 
or where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall submit 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
6. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security shall, as specified by 
the Enforcement Rules, undergo an audit, interim audit, or interim review by two or more 
certified public accountants or an audit firm, and based on such audit and review, attach an 
audit report, interim audit report or interim review report prepared by such certified public 
accountants or audit firm in conformity with the provisions of Article 193-2 of the Act to 
documents concerning financial calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the 
documents to be submitted referred to in Paragraph 2 through the preceding paragraph, 
submitting them to the Exchange by the time when the Exchange approves listing of the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
102 
preferred equity investment security pertaining to the initial listing application.  
7. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security (excluding an initial 
listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security that make an initial listing 
application pursuant to the provisions of Rule 832) shall, as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules, submit a copy of a summary audit report, a summary interim audit report or a 
summary interim review report (including a summary interim audit report in cases of a 
specified business company; the same shall apply hereinafter) prepared by certified public 
accountants or an audit firm with respect to the audit, the interim audit or the interim review 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph (excluding those specified by the Enforcement Rules) 
to the Exchange by the time when the Exchange approves listing of the preferred equity 
investment security pertaining to the initial listing application. 
8. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security (excluding an initial 
listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security that makes an initial listing 
application pursuant to the provisions of Rule 832) shall, as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules, attach an audit report or a document containing an opinion about financial numerical 
values, etc. prepared by certified public accountants or an audit firm to the documents 
concerning financial calculation specified by the Enforcement Rules, and submit them to the 
Exchange by the time when the Exchange approves listing of the preferred equity investment 
security pertaining to the initial listing application, in addition to the provisions of Paragraph 
6. 
9. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
applicant to submit an informational report or materials in addition to the documents 
prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing 
examination. 
10. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security shall, if the Exchange 
approves the listing of a preferred equity investment security pertaining to an initial listing 
application, submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the documents 
referred to in Paragraphs 2 through 8, and shall agree that the Exchange makes such 
documents and the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public 
inspection before and after the listing, out of the documents submitted by the initial listing 
applicant for a preferred equity investment security pursuant to the provisions of this rule. 
11. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security shall, if the Exchange 
approves listing of a preferred equity investment security pertaining to an initial listing 
application, submit documents describing to the effect that the representative of such initial 
listing applicant is aware that the "Annual Securities Report for Initial Listing Application" 
prescribed by Paragraph 2 and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules do not 
contain any untrue statements and the reason as specified by the Enforcement Rules, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes such documents available for public inspection before 
and after the listing. 
12. In the cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, an initial listing applicant for a preferred 
equity investment security shall submit the report containing matters concerning corporate 
governance as specified by the Enforcement Rules, and shall agree that the Exchange makes 
such documents available for public inspection before and after the listing.  
 
Rule 830. Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing Examination for a preferred equity investment security shall be carried out on that 
meeting Rule 205, Item (1), Item (2), a. and b., Items (3) through (8) and Items (11) through 
(13). In this case, "the number of shareholders (meaning the number of holders owing one (1)  
unit or more of the stock, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter)" in Item (1) of the same rule 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
103 
shall be "the number of holders owning one (1) unit or more of a preferred equity investment 
security", "a stock company" in Item (3) shall be "a cooperative structured financial institution", 
"a stock, etc. pertaining to an initial listing application" in Item (6), d. shall be "a preferred 
equity security pertaining to an initial listing application and "transfer of shares" in Item (11) 
shall be "transfer of preferred equity investment securities". Details of each such item shall be 
specified by the Enforcement Rules.  
 
Rule 831.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a preferred equity investment security shall be carried out on the 
matters referred to in each of the following items concerning an initial listing applicant for a 
preferred equity investment and its corporate group. 
(1) Corporate continuity and profitability: 
A business shall be operated continuously and a stable revenue base is present; 
(2)  Soundness of corporate management: 
A business shall be carried out fairly and faithfully; 
(3) Effectiveness of corporate governance and internal management system of an enterprise: 
Corporate governance and internal management system shall be properly prepared and 
functioning; 
(4) Appropriateness of disclosure of corporate information, etc.: 
The applicant shall be in a status where disclosure of the corporate information, etc. can be 
carried out in an appropriate manner; and 
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange from the viewpoint of the public interest 
or the protection of investors.  
2. Listing examination provided in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out on the basis of 
the documents submitted by the initial listing applicant pursuant to the provisions of each 
paragraph of Rule 829 and questions, etc. 
3. Listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be aimed at being completed within the 
period specified in the Enforcement Rules.  
4. Necessary matters concerning listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
5. Where an initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security is deemed to be 
unlikely to meet the provisions of Rule 205, Item (6), a. as applied pursuant to the provisions 
of the preceding rule, listing examination provided in Paragraph 1 shall be postponed. 
 
Rule 832. Technical Listing 
The provisions of Rule 208, Item (1), Item (3) and Item (5) shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to an initial listing application for a preferred equity investment security. In this case, "Rule 205 
through the preceding rule" in the same rule shall be "Rule 830 and Rule 831", "listing of a 
stock, etc. issued by the company as specified by the Enforcement Rules on the Standard 
Market" in the same rule shall be "listing of a preferred equity investment security issued by 
the company as specified by the Enforcement Rules", "a listed company on the Standard 
Market" in each item of the same rule shall be "an issuer of a preferred equity investment 
security". 
 
Rule 833.  Listing Examination Pertaining to Technical Listing 
1. Listing examination of a preferred equity investment security issued by a company as 
specified by Rule 208, Item (1), Item (3) and Item (5), which is applied mutatis mutandis in 
the preceding rule, shall, as a general rule, be carried out pursuant to the criteria referred to 
in each of the following items: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
104 
(1) Said preferred equity investment security shall meet Rule 205. Item (8), Item (11), and 
Item (12); 
(2) Said preferred equity investment security shall be unlikely to fall under the criteria 
equivalent to the criteria prescribed in Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (15), Item (19) and Item 
(20) as of the time of listing; 
(3) Said preferred equity investment security shall meet any of the a. through c. below: 
a. The number of holders having one (1) unit or more of preferred equity investment 
security shall be expected to reach 400 or more by the end of the first business year 
ending after the listing; 
b. The number of tradable shares shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by the 
end of the first business year after the listing; 
c. The market capitalization of tradable shares shall be expected to reach JPY 1 billion or 
more by the end of the first business year after the listing. 
2. With regards to the application of the provisions of Item (3), a. through c. of the preceding 
paragraph pertaining to a company whose shareholder, etc. record date is not the end of a 
business year, "the end of the first business year after listing" in the same item shall be "the 
first shareholder, etc. record date after listing". 
 
Rule 834.  Special Provisions on Cases Where being Scheduled to Conduct a Merger, etc. 
on or before the Listing Date 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 826, Paragraph 1, in the cases where an initial listing 
applicant for a preferred equity investment security is scheduled to conduct an act equivalent 
to the act referred to in each item of Rule 223, Paragraph 1, a company, specified in each 
such item in accordance with the classification of the act referred to in each such item, may 
make an initial listing application of its issued preferred equity investment security. In this 
case, matters necessary for initial listing application procedures and application of other 
provisions shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. An initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security applying for an initial 
listing of preferred equity investment security pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph shall submit, other than the documents prescribed in Rule 829, Paragraphs 1 
through 8, documents specified by the Enforcement Rules by a date specified by the 
Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
3. When applying for an initial listing of preferred equity investment security pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 1, the documents prescribed in Rule 829, Paragraph 11, Item (1) and 
Paragraph 12 of the same rule shall be submitted by the companies specified in each item of 
Rule 223, Paragraph 1. 
4. With regard to the application of the provisions of Rule 205, as applied pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 830, to an initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment 
security applying for initial listing pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, "a stock, etc. 
pertaining to an initial listing application" in Item (6), d. of the same rule shall be "a stock, 
etc. issued by the initial listing applicant" shall be "a preferred equity investment security 
issued by an initial listing applicant for a preferred equity investment security". 
 
Rule 835. Delisting Criteria 
1. Where a listed preferred equity investment security falls under any of the following items, it 
shall be delisted. In this case, details of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement 
Rules; provided, however, that where the general market condition rapidly deteriorates, and 
when the Exchange deems that the criteria specified in Items (1) through (4) are not 
appropriate, the Exchange shall specify the criteria on a case-by-case basis: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
105 
(1) The number of holders of a preferred equity investment security: 
Where the number of holders having a unit or more of a preferred equity investment 
security is less than 400 as of the end of a business year of an issuer of a listed preferred 
equity investment security and the number fails to reach 400 or more within a year; 
(2) Tradable shares 
Where a listed preferred equity investment security falls under either of the following a. or b. 
below: 
  a. Where the number of tradable shares is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business 
year of an issuer of a preferred equity investment security and the number fails to reach 
2,000 units or more within a year; or 
  b. Where the market capitalization of the tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of the 
end of a business year of an issuer of a preferred equity investment security and the number 
fails to reach JPY 1 billion or more within a year; 
 (3) Trading volume  
Where the monthly average trading volume of a listed preferred equity investment security 
for six months prior to the end of June or prior to the end of December of every year is less 
than ten units, and fails to reach 10 units or more within six months 
(4) Amount of net assets: 
Where the amount of net assets as of the end of business year of an issuer of a listed 
preferred equity investment security falls to or below zero (0) (excluding cases where 
specified in the Enforcement Rules), and fails to be positive within one (1) year; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the Enforcement Rules specify 
otherwise.  
(5) Inappropriate merger, etc. 
In the cases referred to in the following a. or b., where the Exchange deems that a listed 
preferred equity investment security falls under such a. or b.: 
a. Where an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security carries out an absorption-
type merger of an issuer of an unlisted preferred equity investment security or an act 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as an act classified as this (hereinafter referred to as 
an "absorption-type merger, etc." in this a.):  
Where the Exchange deems that such issuer of the listed preferred equity investment 
security is not a substantial surviving company and such issuer of the listed preferred 
equity investment security (meaning the entity specified by the Enforcement Rules 
as an issuer of an unlisted preferred equity investment security which is the party 
involved before an absorption-type merger, etc.) fails to meet the criteria specified 
by the Enforcement Rules within three years; or 
b. Where a cooperative structured financial institution is listed pursuant to Rule 832 
(excluding cases where all parties involved are issuers of preferred equity investment 
securities): 
    Where the Exchange deems that an issuer of a preferred equity investment security 
is not a substantial surviving company pertaining to such company, and such 
company (meaning the entity prescribed by the Enforcement Rules as an issuer of 
an unlisted preferred equity investment security which is subject to an examination 
before falling under each such item) fails to meet the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules within three years; 
(6) In cases where a preferred equity investment security falls under any of Rule 601, 
Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (4), Items (6) through (20). In this case, "a listed company" 
in Items (2) through (4), Items (9) through (13) and Items (16) through (19) shall be "an 
issuer of a preferred equity investment security", "Rule 204, Paragraph 1, Rule 210, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
106 
Paragraph 1, Rule 216, Paragraph 1, Rule 301, Paragraph 3 or Rule 306, Paragraph 4 
(including cases as applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 310, Paragraph 2 or Rule 603, 
Paragraph 4)" in Item (10) of the same paragraph shall be "Ruel 829, Paragraph 1 
(including cases where Rule 603, Paragraph 4 is applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 842, 
Paragraph 9)", and "proviso of Rule 205, Item (8)" in Item (11) of the same paragraph shall 
be "proviso of Rule 205, Item (8) as applied pursuant to the provisions of Rule 830". 
2. With regards to the application of the provisions of Items (1) and (2) of the preceding 
paragraph pertaining to an issuer of a preferred equity investment security whose shareholder, 
etc. record date is not the end of a business year, the number of holders of preferred equity 
investment securities, the number of tradable shares and the market capitalization of tradable 
shares as of the shareholder, etc. record date shall be deemed to be the number of holders of 
preferred equity investment securities, the number of tradable shares and the market 
capitalization of tradable shares as of the end of the business year. 
 
Rule 836．Disclosure of Plan for Improvement 
1. Where an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security falls under "where the number 
of holders having a unit or more of a preferred equity investment security is less than 400 as 
of the end of a business year of an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security" as 
specified in Paragraph 1, Item (1) of the preceding rule, "where the number of tradable shares 
is less than 2,000 units as of the end of a business year of an issuer of a listed preferred equity 
investment security" as specified in Item (2), a. of the same paragraph, "where the market 
capitalization of the tradable shares is less than JPY 1 billion as of the end of a business year 
of an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security" as specified in Item (2), b. of the 
same paragraph, "where the monthly average trading volume of a listed preferred equity 
investment security for six months prior to the end of June or prior to the end of December of 
every year is less than ten units" as specified in Item (3) of the same paragraph or "where the 
amount of net assets as of the end of business year of an issuer of a listed preferred equity 
investment security falls to or below zero (0) (excluding cases where specified in the 
enforcement Rules)" as specified in Item (4) of the same paragraph, the issuer shall disclose 
the plans within three months calculated from falling under such a situation (this shall not 
apply to cases where the Exchange deems it difficult for an issuer of a listed preferred equity 
investment security to disclose the plan within three months due to reasons not attributable to 
the issuer of the listed preferred equity investment security, such as act of providence ) which 
describes its initiatives and implementation date thereof for the purpose of being the state of 
not violating the criteria specified in each such item. 
2. In cases where an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security falls into a state 
"where the amount of net assets as of the end of business year of an issuer of a listed preferred 
equity investment security falls to or below zero (0) (excluding cases where specified in the 
enforcement Rules)" as specified in Paragraph 1, Item (4) of the preceding rule, during the 
period from submitting and disclosing the plan prescribed in the preceding paragraph until 
coming out of such state, the issuer of the listed preferred equity investment security shall 
disclose the documents describing the progress of the plan prescribed in preceding paragraph, 
before disclosing the details of the financial results for each business year, each interim 
accounting period or each cumulative quarterly accounting period (excluding the second 
cumulative quarterly accounting period), or each consolidated accounting year, each interim 
consolidated accounting period or each cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period 
(excluding the second cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting period) as specified by 
Rule 404, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2, as applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 842, Paragraph 
5. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
107 
 
Rule 837.   Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed preferred equity investment 
security is decided shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 838.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed preferred equity investment security is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed preferred equity investment security as a security under supervision to 
make investors aware of that fact pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 839. Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed preferred equity investment security is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed preferred equity investment security as a security to be delisted for a period 
until the day before the delisting date pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to 
make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 840.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer making application for initial listing of a preferred equity investment security and an 
issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security shall pay a listing examination fee, initial 
listing fee, additional listing fee, annual listing fee and other fees relating to listing pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Chapter 4 
Equity Contribution Security 
 
Rule 841.  Equity Contribution Security 
1. The Exchange shall list an equity contribution security for which it deems listing is 
appropriate on the Exchange for the public interest or investor protection. 
2. The Exchange shall make an entry in the listed securities ledger regarding an equity 
contribution security in the preceding paragraph on the listing date of such issues. 
3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Exchange shall prescribe matters regarding 
an equity contribution security on a case-by-case basis. 
4. Excluding the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, these regulations shall not 
apply to an equity contribution security. 
 
Chapter 5 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 842.  Provisions Applied Mutatis Mutandis, etc. 
1. The provisions of Rule 222 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to a preferred equity investment 
security. In this case, "allotment to shareholders" shall be "allotment to preferred equity 
investors". 
2. The provisions of Rule 301, Rule 305, Rule 604, Rule 606 and Rule 610 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to a preferred stock, a senior security and a preferred equity investment 
security. In this case details shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
3. The provisions of Rule 302, Rule 303, and Rule 304 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to a 
preferred stock, etc., and a preferred equity investment security. In this case details shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules, and in cases where applied mutatis mutandis to a 
preferred equity investment, "a paid allotment to shareholders" in Rule 302 shall be "a paid 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
108 
allotment to ordinary equity investors". 
4. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2 and Rule 413 through Rule 416 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to disclosure of corporate information made by an issuer of a listed 
preferred stock, etc., a listed senior security and a listed preferred equity investment security 
based on the provisions in this part. 
5. The provisions of Rule 402 through Rule 405, Rule 409-2 through Rule 411, Rule 417 
through Rule 422, Rule 424, Rule 427, Rule 429, Rule 432 through Rule 434, Rule 439 
through Rule 441-2, Rule 442 through Rule 444, Rule 445-3, and Rule 449 through Rule 451 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to an issuer of a preferred equity investment security. In 
this case, "shares issued by a stock company or treasury shares to be disposed of by the stock 
company prescribed in Article 199, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act to entities who will 
subscribe for such shares" in Rule 402, Item (1), a. shall be "entities who will subscribe for 
preferred equity investments issued by a cooperative structured financial institution", "the 
provisions of Article 156, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act (including cases where the 
provisions apply by replacing terms pursuant to the provisions of Rule 163 and Rule 165, 
Paragraph 3 of the same Act) or the provisions of foreign laws and regulations corresponding 
thereto" in e. of the same item shall be "the provisions of Article 15 of the Preferred Equity 
Investment Act", "representative directors or representative executive officers" in aa. of the 
same item shall be "officers who should represent a cooperative structured financial 
institution", "shareholders" in each item of the same rule (excluding Item (2), o. and p.) shall 
be "preferred equity investors as prescribed by the Preferred Equity Investment Act", 
"shareholders" in Item (2) o. and p. of the same rule shall be "preferred equity investors and 
ordinary equity investors as prescribed by the Preferred Equity Investment Act", "a general 
shareholders meeting" in the same p. shall be "a general meeting of ordinary equity investors 
or that of preferred equity investors", "a share split" in Rule 427, Paragraph 1 shall be 
"preferred equity investment split", "directors or executive officers" in Rule 439 shall be 
"governors", "development of a system and structure prescribed in Article 362, Paragraph 4, 
Item (6) of the Companies Act, Article 399-13, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c. of the same act or 
Article 416, Paragraph 1, Item (1), e. of the same act" in the same rule shall be " development 
of a system and structure prescribed in Article 362, Paragraph 4, Item (6) of the Companies 
Act". 
6. The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination pertaining to 
disclosure of corporate information made by an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc., a listed 
senior security and a listed preferred equity investment security on the basis of the provisions 
of this part. 
7. The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring effectiveness concerning an issuer of a listed preferred stock, etc., a 
listed senior security and a listed preferred equity investment security. 
8. The provisions of Rule 507 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to ensuring effectiveness 
concerning an issuer of a listed preferred equity investment security. 
9. The provisions of Rule 603 (limited to a listed preferred equity investment security for 
Paragraph 2) and Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examinations pertaining to 
delisting of a listed preferred stock, etc., a listed senior security and a listed preferred equity 
investment security. 
10. The provisions of Rule 702, Rule 704 and Rule 706 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to a 
listed preferred equity investment security. 
 
 
Part 4 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
109 
Bonds, etc. 
 
Chapter 1 
Bonds 
 
Rule 901.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a bond shall be carried out upon application by an issuer of such bond.  
2. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made falls under Item (1) (limited 
to the part pertaining to a consolidation-type merger) or Item (2) (limited to the part 
pertaining to an incorporation-type company split) Rule 904, Paragraph 3, an initial listing 
application may also be made prior to the establishment of an issuer, limited to after a 
resolution of a general shareholders meeting of an issuer which carries out a consolidation-
type merge company or incorporation-type company split prescribed in Item (1) or Item (2) 
of the same paragraph. In this case, an initial listing application shall be made by such issuer. 
3. In cases where a bond is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from the date when 
the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, said initial 
listing application shall become invalid. 
4. The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs shall not apply to government bonds. 
5. Examination of a bond pertaining to an initial listing application shall be made pursuant to   
the provisions of Rules 904 through 906. 
 
Rule 902.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a bond pertaining to an initial listing application, an issuer of the 
bond pertaining to such initial listing application shall submit a "Listing Agreement for a 
Bond" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules; provided, 
however, that submission shall not be required if an issuer of a bond listed on the Exchange 
makes an application for initial listing of another bond. 
2. A listing agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall take effect as of the listing date of a 
bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall record a security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of a 
bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 903.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to apply for initial listing of a bond shall submit a "Security Initial 
Listing Application Form" pursuant to the provisions of the Exchange. 
2. A deed of trust pertaining to an issue of a bond and any other documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for 
those specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a 
date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis.  
3. An issuer of a bond pertaining to an initial listing application shall agree that the Exchange 
makes documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public inspection before 
and after the listing, out of the documents submitted pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment on the basis of the 
provisions of Rule 901, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of the 
initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case by 
case basis, out of the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules), out of the attached 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
110
documents specified by Paragraph 2, will suffice, if they are submitted immediately after 
submission becomes possible. 
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs, where an initial listing 
application is made with respect to a bond specified by the Enforcement Rules out of the 
bonds issued by an issuer of a listed bond whose content is the same as that of a listed security, 
the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange shall be 
submitted. 
6. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an issuer of a bond 
pertaining to an initial listing application to submit an informational report or materials in 
addition to the documents prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide 
cooperation in listing examination. 
 
Rule 904.  Criteria for Listing Examination of Corporate Bonds 
1. Listing examination of a corporate bond (meaning a security referred to in Article 2, 
Paragraph 1, Item (5) of the Act or a security having the same characteristics as those of a 
security referred to in Item (5) of the same paragraph out of the securities referred to in Item 
(17) of the same paragraph, but excluding a bond with subscription warrant and an 
exchangeable corporate bond; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) shall be made 
pursuant to the criteria referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a listed company; 
and 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made satisfies the following a. through 
d.: 
a. The total nominal amount of outstanding bonds is JPY 1 billion or more; 
b. The number of subscription is equivalent to 1,000 or more; 
c. The face value is any of JPY 100,000, JPY 1 million or JPY 10 million; and 
d. A security is subject to the book-entry transfer operation of a designated book-entry 
transfer institution, or is expected to become so by the time of listing. 
2. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a foreign corporate bond 
(meaning a security having the same characteristics as those of a security referred to in Article 
2, Paragraph 1, Item (5) of the Act out of the securities referred to in Item (17) of the same 
paragraph, but excluding a bond with subscription warrant and an exchangeable corporate 
bond; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter.), regarding the criterion referred to in 
Item (1) of the preceding paragraph, listing examination shall, notwithstanding the provisions 
of the same item, be conducted pursuant to the criteria specified by each such item in 
accordance with the classification of a foreign corporate bond referred to in each of the 
following items: 
(1) A foreign corporate bond other than a guaranteed foreign corporate bond as prescribed 
by each of the following items: 
The following a. or b. shall be satisfied: 
a. An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a listed company; 
or 
b. A stock, etc. issued complies with Rule 205, Item (2), a., Items (3) through (6) of the 
same rule, and Rule 206, Paragraph 1, Item (3) (where an issuer of a foreign corporate 
bond is a privatized foreign company, Rule 205, Item (2), a. and b. and Item (4), Rule 
206, Paragraph 1, Item (3) and Paragraph 2, Items (1) through (3) of the same rule), and 
it is a company of which the Exchange deems listing such stock, etc. is appropriate by 
carrying out examination in compliance with listing examination prescribed by Rule 
207; and 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
111 
(2) A guaranteed foreign stock, etc. (meaning a foreign stock, etc. with guarantee; the same 
shall apply hereinafter): 
A bond certificate shows that it is guaranteed together with the details and, in addition, the 
following a. through c. is satisfied: 
a. An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made shall be an entity 
specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the entities which carry out the business of 
issuing bonds and lending money, etc. for an entity which guarantees such corporate 
bond (hereinafter referred to as a "guarantor") on the basis of his/her instruction or 
decision; 
b. Guarantee of such corporate bond shall be guarantee prescribed by the Enforcement 
Rules such as payment guarantee of the principal, interest, etc.; and 
c. A guarantor of such corporate bond complies with a. or b. of the preceding item. 
3. The provisions of Paragraph 1, Item (2), and Paragraph 2, Item (1), b. and Item (2), c. shall 
not apply to listing examination in cases falling under any of the following items; provided, 
however, that it is required that the criteria referred to in Paragraph 1, Item (2), b., c., (b) of 
the same item and each item of Rule 912, Paragraph 2 is not satisfied: 
(1) Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a security to be delisted 
from the Exchange by an issuer being merged by another company by means of an 
absorption-type merger or an issuer carrying out a consolidation-type merger; or 
(2) Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a security to be delisted 
from the Exchange by an issuer making another company assume obligations pertaining to 
such security for which an initial listing application is made by means of an incorporation-
type company split or an absorption-type company split. 
     
Rule 905.  Listing of Bonds Other Than Corporate Bonds 
1. Concerning a bond other than a corporate bond, the Exchange shall make a decision on 
listing of a security which the Exchange deems necessary in consideration of the criteria 
referred to in Paragraph 1, Item (2) of the preceding rule.  
2. Concerning a foreign government bond, etc. (meaning a security having the same 
characteristics as those of a security referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Items (1) through 
(3) of the Act out of the securities referred to in Item (17) of the same paragraph, but 
excluding a bond specified in Article 2-11 of the Enforcement Order), out of the bonds in 
the preceding paragraph, the Exchange shall consider the general conditions of an issuer of 
such bond, in addition to the provisions stipulated in the same paragraph. 
 
Rule 906.  Listing of Bonds of the Same Substance 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two rules, the listing of a bond for which an 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 903, Paragraph 5 shall, as 
a general rule, be approved. 
 
Rule 907.  Disclosure of Corporate Information 
1. An issuer (excluding a listed company; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule) of a 
listed bond shall make efforts to carry out such faithful execution of business as strengthening 
prompt, accurate and fair disclosure of corporate information at all times from the viewpoint 
of investors with full recognition that timely and appropriate disclosure of corporate 
information to investors is the basis of a sound securities market. 
2. An issuer of a listed bond shall carry out disclosure in compliance with the provisions of 
Rules 402 through 407, Rule 411, and Rule 411-2 in consideration of the characteristics of 
the listed bond. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
112
3. The provisions of Rules 413 through 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to disclosure by 
an issuer of a listed bond on the basis of the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 908.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 909.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. An issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed bond shall submit documents prescribed 
by the Enforcement Rules pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. In addition to the preceding paragraph, an issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed 
bond shall submit documents, etc. to the Exchange in compliance with the provisions of 
Rule 421, Paragraph 1, in consideration of the characteristics of a listed bond and shall 
additionally submit documents requested by the Exchange on the basis of an adequate cause 
without delay. 
3. The Exchange may make documents deemed appropriate by the Exchange available for 
public inspection out of the documents submitted by an issuer (excluding a listed company) 
of a listed bond pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 910.  Deleted.   
 
Rule 911.  Selection of Agents, etc. of Issuers of Listed Foreign Corporate Bonds 
An issuer (excluding a listed foreign company) of a listed foreign corporate bond shall, pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, select an entity that has an address or residence in 
Japan with the authority to act a proxy of or represent such issuer with respect to all acts in 
relation to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 912.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where an issuer of a listed bond falls under any of the following items, all securities of the 
bonds issued by such issuer shall be delisted. In this case, details of each such item shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) In cases prescribed by the Enforcement Rules that an issuer commits a material breach 
concerning a listing agreement pertaining to a bond or where an issuer ceases to be a 
party to such listing agreement or where an issuer commits a material breach concerning 
a matter as specified by the Enforcement Rules; or 
(2) In cases prescribed in the following a. through d. in accordance with the classification 
of bonds referred to in such a. through d.: 
a. A corporate bond other than a foreign corporate bond: 
In cases as prescribed in the following (a) through (d) in accordance with the 
classification of a bond referred to in such (a) through (d): 
(a) Where an issuer of a listed bond (meaning a corporate bond listed on the 
Exchange; the same shall apply hereinafter) is a listed company: 
Where a stock, etc. issued by an issuer of a listed corporate bond falls under 
any of Items (2) through (10) (for Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (3), it shall 
exclude cases where the provisions of the second sentence of Rule 601, 
Paragraph 1,Item (3) applies), Item (19), or Item (20) of Rule 601, Paragraph 
1; and 
(b) Where an issuer of a listed corporate bond is not a listed company and, in addition, 
it is a company established under a special law: 
When the Exchange deems that a listed company falls into any of the states 
prescribed in the following i to iii: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
113
i. Where a listed company falls under any of Items (2) through (5) of Rule 601, 
Paragraph 1 (excluding cases where the second sentence of Item (3) applies, in 
cases of Item (3) of the same paragraph) or Paragraph 1, Item (8) (excluding cases 
falling under Rule 503, Paragraph 1, Item (2), b.) of the same rule; 
ii. Where a listed company has not submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. an annual  
securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report, an 
interim audit report or interim review report (including an audit report, an interim 
audit report or an interim review report pertaining to certification corresponding 
to audit certification by entities corresponding to certified public accountants or 
an audit firm) in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order on Audit 
Certification by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm is 
attached within one (1) month (in cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
within a period specified by the Enforcement Rules) after a period specified in 
Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act passes; and 
iii. Regarding an audit report attached to an issuer's financial statements, etc. or an 
interim audit report or interim review report attached to an issuer's interim 
financial statements, etc., where the audit report contains an "adverse opinion" or 
"disclaimer of opinion", an interim audit report contains an "opinion that interim 
financial statements, etc. do not provide useful information" or "disclaimer of 
opinion" and an interim review report contains an "adverse  conclusion" or 
"disclaimer of conclusion", and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to 
maintain order in the market if the listed company is not delisted immediately; 
however, excluding cases where a "disclaimer of opinion" or "disclaimer of 
conclusion" is stated, and such statement is made due to reasons not attributable 
to the issuer, such as act of providence; 
b. A foreign corporate bond other than a guaranteed foreign corporate bond: 
In cases prescribed in the following (a) through (c) in accordance with the 
classification of bonds referred to in such (a) through (c): 
(a) Where an issuer of a listed bond is a listed company (excluding cases of multiple 
listing): 
Where a stock, etc. issued by an issuer of a listed corporate bond falls under 
any of Items (2) through (10) of Rule 601, Paragraph 1 (excluding cases where 
the provisions of the second sentence of Item (3) of the same paragraph applies 
in the case of said Item (3)), Item (19), or Item (20) of the same rule pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (5); 
(b) Where an issuer of a listed corporate bond is a listed company (limited to cases 
of multiple listing): 
Where a stock, etc. issued by an issuer of a listed corporate bond falls under 
any of Items (2) through (10) (excluding cases where the provisions of the second 
sentence of Item (3) of the same paragraph applies in the case of said Item (3)), 
Item (19), or Item (20) of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, pursuant to the provisions of 
Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item (3) or the main clause of Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item 
(2); provided, however, that cases where an issuer falls under the main clause of 
Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item (2) and the Exchange deems that it is necessary to 
continue the listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules shall be 
excluded; and 
(c) Where an issuer of a listed corporate bond is not a listed company: 
Where the Exchange deems that an issuer of a listed corporate bond falls into 
any of the states specified in Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through (5) 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
114
(excluding cases where the second sentence of Item (3) applies in the case of said 
Item (3)), Item (8) (excluding cases falling under Rule 503, Paragraph 1, Item (2), 
b.), Item (19), or Item (20) of the same paragraph, the main clause of Rule 602, 
Paragraph 2, Item (2), or (b) ii or iii of the preceding a.; provided, however, that 
cases where the Exchange deems that a situation falls under the main clause of 
Rule 602, Paragraph 2, Item (2) and that it is necessary to continue the listing 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules shall be excluded; 
c. A guaranteed foreign corporate bond: 
Where the following (a) or (b) is met: 
(a) Where the preceding b. is met; or 
(b) Where a guarantor of such corporate bond falls under the preceding b.; and 
d. A bond other than a corporate bond (except government bond): 
Where the following (a) or (b) is met: 
(a) Where Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (8) (excluding cases falling under Rule 503, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2), b.), or ii or iii of the preceding a. is met; or 
(b) Where the Exchange deems that the situation is the same as that of suspension 
of business activities, dissolution or a status equivalent to these. 
2. Where a listed bond falls under any of the following items, it shall be delisted. In this case, 
details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where the total nominal amount of outstanding bonds becomes less than JPY 300 
million by the day a month before the day on which the final redemption date arrives; 
(2) Where the final redemption date arrives or where advanced redemption is carried out 
for the total amount of bonds; 
(3) Where an issuer of a listed bond loses the right of benefit of term with respect to such 
security; 
(4) Where obligations pertaining to a listed security are assumed by another company 
because of an absorption-type company split or an incorporation-type company split; 
(5) Where a bond ceases to be subject to handling of the book-entry transfer business of a 
designated book-entry transfer institution; or 
(6) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting is 
appropriate for public interest or the protection of investors. 
     
Rule 913.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed bond is decided shall be provided 
by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 914.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed bond is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed bond as a 
security under supervision to make investors aware of that fact pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 915.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed bond is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed bond as 
a security to be delisted for a period until the day before the delisting date pursuant to the 
provisions of Enforcement Rules to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 916.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer who makes an application for initial listing of a bond and an issuer of a listed bond 
shall pay a listing examination fee, initial listing fee, annual listing fee and any other fees 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
115
relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Chapter 2 
Convertible Bonds 
 
Rule 917.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a convertible bond shall be carried out upon application by an issuer of such 
convertible bond.  
2. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made falls under Rule 920, 
Paragraph 3, Item (3) (limited to the part pertaining to consolidation-type merger by a listed 
company) or Item (6) (limited to the part pertaining to an incorporation-type company split 
by a listed company), or Paragraph 4 of the same rule (limited to the part pertaining to a  
share transfer by a listed company), an initial listing application may also be made prior to 
the establishment of an issuer, limited to after a resolution of a general shareholders meeting 
of a listed company which carries out a consolidation-type merger y, incorporation-type 
company split or share transfer prescribed in Paragraph 3, Item (3) or Item (6), or Paragraph 
4 of the same rule. In this case, an initial listing application shall be made by such listed 
company. 
3. In cases where a convertible bond is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from 
the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, 
said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of a convertible bond pertaining to an initial listing application shall be carried 
out pursuant to the provisions of Rule 920. 
 
Rule 918.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a convertible bond pertaining to an initial listing application, an 
issuer of the convertible bond pertaining to such initial listing application shall submit a 
"Listing Agreement for a Convertible Bond" predetermined by the Exchange as specified 
by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, that submission shall not be required, where 
an issuer of a convertible bond listed on the Exchange makes an application for initial listing 
of another convertible bond. 
2. A listing agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall take effect as of the listing date of a 
convertible bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall record a security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of a 
convertible bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 919.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to apply for initial listing of a convertible bond shall submit a 
"Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange. 
2. A deed of trust pertaining to an issue of a convertible bond and any other documents 
specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial Listing 
Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph.  
3. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment on the basis of the 
provisions of Rule 917, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of 
the initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-
by-case basis), out of the documents specified by the preceding paragraph, will suffice, if 
they are submitted immediately after submission becomes possible. 
4. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an issuer of a 
convertible bond pertaining to an initial listing application to submit an informational report 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
116
or materials in addition to the documents prescribed in the preceding three paragraphs 
and/or to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
 
 
Rule 920.  Criteria for Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a convertible bond shall be made pursuant to the criteria referred to 
in each of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by 
the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a listed 
company; and 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made satisfies the following a. 
through f.: 
a. The total nominal amount of a convertible bond is JPY 2 billion or more; 
b. The conditions of exercise of subscription warrants are not deemed inappropriate 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules; 
c. Where such security is a convertible bond which is not handled in the book-entry 
transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, the form of the 
actual certificate of a convertible bond complies with the requirements specified by 
the Enforcement Rules or a resolution has been adopted at the board of directors such 
that the actual certificate of a convertible bond will be prepared in the form in 
conformity with such requirements; 
d. Where such security is a convertible bond that can be handled in the book-entry 
transfer operation of a designated book-entry transfer institution, such security is 
subject to the book-entry transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer 
institution, or is likely to be so by the time of listing; 
e. Where such security is a convertible bond that can be handled in the book-entry 
transfer operation of a designated book-entry transfer institution, the amount of face 
value shall be any of JPY 5 million, JPY 4 million, JPY 3 million, JPY 2 million, JPY 
1 million, JPY 500,000 , or JPY 100,000; and 
 f. The listing of a security is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the public 
interest or the protection of investors. 
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, where a security for which an 
initial listing application is made is listed on another financial instruments exchange in 
Japan, listing examination shall be carried out in accordance with the criteria referred to in 
each of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the 
Enforcement Rules:  
(1) A stock issued by an issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made 
is simultaneously listed together with such security; and 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made complies with the following 
a. through d.: 
a. The remaining total nominal amount as of the time of initial listing application is JPY 
300 million or more; 
b. Where such security is a convertible bond which is not handled in the book-entry 
transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, the form of the 
actual certificate of a convertible bond complies with the requirements specified by 
the Enforcement Rules or a resolution has been adopted at the board of directors such 
that the actual certificate of a convertible bond will be prepared in the form in 
conformity with such requirements; 
c. Where such security is a convertible bond that can be handled in the book-entry 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
117
transfer operation of a designated book-entry transfer institution, the amount of face 
value shall be any of JPY 5 million, JPY 4 million, JPY 3 million, JPY 2 million, JPY 
a hundred (1) million, JPY 500,000 , or JPY 100,000. 
d. A security does not fall under the criteria for delisting prescribed by any other 
financial instruments exchange in Japan on which such security is listed; and 
e. A security complies with Item (2), b., d. and f. of the preceding paragraph. 
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs, listing examination of 
cases where any of the following items is met shall be subject to the criteria prescribed in 
each such item. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) Where a listed company or a subsidiary of a listed company carries out an absorption-
type merger, and a security for which an initial listing application is made is a 
convertible bond (limited to a convertible bond issued by a listed company which is a 
surviving company pertaining to such absorption-type merger or a listed company 
which is a parent company of a surviving company) issued in exchange for a convertible 
bond issued by a predecessor company, and, in addition, where the convertible bond 
issued by such predecessor company by such absorption-type merger is to be delisted 
from the Exchange: 
Each item of Paragraph 2 of the following rule shall not be satisfied; 
(2) Where a listed company or a subsidiary of a listed company carries out an absorption-
type merger on an unlisted company whose stock is listed on another financial 
instruments exchange in Japan, and a security for which an initial listing application is 
made is a convertible bond (limited to a convertible bond issued by a listed company 
which is a surviving company pertaining to such absorption-type merger or a listed 
company which is a parent company of a surviving company) issued in exchange for a 
convertible bond issued by a predecessor company and, in addition, where the 
convertible bond issued by such predecessor company by such absorption-type merger 
is to be delisted from another financial instruments exchange in Japan: 
Item (2) of the preceding paragraph shall be satisfied; 
(3) Where a listed company is merged by another company by means of an absorption-type 
merger (excluding cases falling under Item (1)) or carries out a consolidation-type 
merger, and a security for which an initial listing application is made is a convertible 
bond (limited to a convertible bond issued by a newly created company or a surviving 
company to which the provisions of Rule 208, Item (1), Rule 214, Item (1), or Rule 
2220, Item (1) apply, or a parent company of a surviving company) issued in exchange 
for a convertible bond issued by such listed company and, in addition, where a 
convertible bond issued by such listed company is to be delisted from the Exchange 
because of a dissolution caused by such absorption-type merger or consolidation-type 
merger: 
The following a. and b. shall be satisfied: 
a. A stock, etc. issued by such newly created company or surviving company or a parent 
company of a surviving company is simultaneously listed together with such security 
for which an initial listing application is made; and 
b. A security for which an initial listing application is made does not fall under the 
criteria referred to in each item of Paragraph 2 of the following rule; 
(4) Where a listed company carries out an absorption-type company split with another listed 
company and a security for which an initial listing application is made is a convertible 
bond (limited to a convertible bond issued by another listed company which is a 
succeeding company pertaining to such absorption-type company split) issued in 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
118
exchange for a convertible bond issued by a listed company which carries out an 
absorption-type company split and, in addition, where the convertible bond issued by a 
listed company which carries out such absorption-type company split because of such 
absorption-type company split is to be delisted from the Exchange: 
Each item of Paragraph 2 of the following rule shall not be satisfied; 
(5) Where an unlisted company whose stock is listed on another financial instruments 
exchange in Japan carries out an absorption-type company split with a listed company 
and a security for which an initial listing application is made is a convertible bond 
(limited to a convertible bond issued by a listed company which is a succeeding 
company pertaining to such absorption-type company split) issued in exchange for a 
convertible bond issued by such unlisted company and, in addition, where a convertible 
bond issued by such unlisted company because of such absorption-type company split 
is to be delisted from another financial instruments exchange in Japan: 
Item (2) of the preceding rule shall be satisfied; and 
(6) Where a listed company carries out an absorption-type company split or an 
incorporation-type company split with an unlisted company and a security for which an 
initial listing application is made is a convertible bond (limited to a convertible bond 
issued by a newly created company or a succeeding company to which the provisions 
of Rule 208, Item (5), Rule 214, Item (5), or Rule 220, Item (5) apply) issued in 
exchange for a convertible bond issued by such listed company and, in addition, where 
the convertible bond issued by such listed company because of such absorption-type 
company split or an incorporation-type company split is to be delisted from the 
Exchange: 
The following a. and b. shall be satisfied: 
a. A stock, etc. issued by such unlisted company or newly created company is 
simultaneously listed together with such security for which an initial listing 
application is made; and 
b. A security for which initial listing application is made does not fall under each item 
of Paragraph 2 of the following rule. 
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, where a listed company 
or an unlisted company whose stock, etc. is listed on another financial instruments exchange 
in Japan becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of another company by a share exchange  or  
share transfer, and a convertible bond issued by a company which becomes such wholly-
owned subsidiary is to be delisted from a financial instruments exchange in Japan and, in 
addition, where a convertible bond issued by such other company (limited to cases where it 
is a listed company or it is expected to be promptly listed pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
208, Item (3), Rule 214, Item (3), or Rule 220, Item (3)) or a parent company (limited to 
cases where it is a listed company or it is expected to be promptly listed pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 208, Item (3), Rule 214, Item (3), or Rule 220, Item (3)) of such other 
company is delivered in exchange for such convertible bond, listing examination of a 
convertible bond issued by such other company or a parent company of such other company 
shall be carried out pursuant to the criteria referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) All entities who desire to receive a delivery of a security for which an initial listing 
application is made in exchange for a convertible bond issued by a company which 
becomes such wholly-owned subsidiary can receive such delivery; and 
(2) Paragraph 1, Item (2), b. through d. shall be satisfied and, in addition, Paragraph 2, Item 
(1) of the following rule shall not be satisfied. 
 
Rule 921.  Delisting Criteria 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
119
1. Where an issuer of a listed convertible bond falls under any of the following items, all 
securities of convertible bonds issued by such issuer shall be delisted. In this case, details 
of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where an issuer carries out a material breach concerning a listing agreement pertaining 
to a convertible bond or where an issuer ceases to become a party to such listing 
agreement; 
(2) Where a stock, etc. issued falls under any of the criteria referred to in Rules 601 and  
602 (excluding cases falling under the following item); or 
(3) Where an issuer becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of another company by a share 
exchange or a share transfer, and where such other company or a parent company of 
such other company is a listed company, or where a stock, etc. issued by such other 
company or a parent company of such other company is expected to be promptly listed 
pursuant to the provisions for technical listing; provided, however, that the same shall 
not apply to a security whose listing is deemed particularly necessary to be continued 
by the Exchange.  
2. Where a listed convertible bond falls under any of the following items, it shall be delisted. 
In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where the total listed nominal amount becomes less than JPY 300 million by the day a 
month before the day on which the final redemption date arrives; 
(2) Where the exercise period for a subscription warrant arrives at maturity; 
(3) Where an issuer of a listed convertible bond loses the right of benefit of term with 
respect to such security; 
(4) Where obligations pertaining to a corporate bond related to a listed security are assumed 
by another company because of an absorption-type company split or an incorporation-
type company split; 
(5) Where such issue is a convertible bond that can be handled in the book-entry transfer 
operation of a designated book-entry transfer institution, when such issue ceases to be 
subject to the book-entry transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer 
institution; or 
(6) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting is 
appropriate for public interest or the protection of investors.  
     
Rule 922.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed convertible bond is decided shall 
be provided by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 923.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed convertible bond is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such listed 
convertible bond as a security under supervision to make investors aware of that fact pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 924.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed convertible bond is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate such 
listed convertible bond as a security to be delisted for a period until the day before the delisting 
date pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 925.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer who makes an application for initial listing of a convertible bond and an issuer of a 
listed convertible bond shall pay an initial listing fee, annual listing fee and any other fees 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
120 
relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
 
 
Chapter 3 
Exchangeable Corporate Bonds 
 
Rule 926.  Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of an exchangeable corporate bond shall be carried out upon application by an 
issuer of such exchangeable corporate bond. 
2. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made falls under Rule 929, 
Paragraph 2, Item (1) (limited to the part pertaining to a consolidation-type merger) or Item 
(2) (limited to the part pertaining to an incorporation-type company split), an initial listing 
application may also be made prior to the establishment of an issuer, limited to after a 
resolution of a general shareholders meeting of an issuer which carries out a consolidation-
type merge or an incorporation-type company split prescribed in Item (1) or Item (2) of the 
same paragraph. In this case, an initial listing application shall be made by such issuer. 
3. In cases where an exchangeable corporate bond is not initially listed within one (1) year 
counting from the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding 
two paragraphs, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of an exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing application 
shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 929. 
 
Rule 927.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists an exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing 
application, an issuer of the exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to such initial listing 
application shall submit a "Listing Agreement for an Exchangeable Corporate Bond" 
predetermined by the Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules; provided, however, 
that submission shall not be required, where an issuer of an exchangeable corporate bond 
listed on the Exchange makes an application for initial listing of another exchangeable 
corporate bond. 
2. A listing agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall take effect as of the listing date of 
an exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall record a security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of an 
exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 928.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to apply for initial listing of an exchangeable corporate bond shall 
submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange. 
2. A deed of trust pertaining to an issue of an exchangeable corporate bond and any other 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial 
Listing Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph.  
3. Where an entity who applied for initial listing of an exchangeable corporate bond carries 
out notification concerning offering or secondary distribution to the Prime Minister, etc. 
with respect to a security for which an initial listing application is made or falls under any 
of the cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, the entity shall submit documents specified 
by the Enforcement Rules.  
4. An issuer of an exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing application shall 
agree that the Exchange makes documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
121 
public inspection before and after the listing, out of the documents submitted pursuant to 
the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
5. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 929, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of 
an initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case 
by case basis, out of the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules), out of the 
documents specified by Paragraph 2, will suffice, if they are submitted immediately after 
submission becomes possible. 
6. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for the listing examination, request an issuer of 
an exchangeable corporate bond pertaining to an initial listing application to submit an 
informational report or materials in addition to the documents prescribed in each of the 
preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
 
Rule 929.  Criteria for Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of an exchangeable corporate bond shall be pursuant to the criteria 
referred to in each of the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be 
provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) A security for which an initial listing application is made or an issuer of a security for 
which an initial listing application is made complies with any of the following a. through 
c.: 
a. An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a listed 
company; 
b. An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a special 
purpose company that the Exchange deems appropriate pursuant to the provisions of 
the Enforcement Rules; or 
c. A security for which initial listing application is made has a credit rating of BBB- 
(minus) or higher (including a rating deemed equivalent to BBB- (minus)) by a 
credit rating agency (meaning a credit rating agency prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 36 of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this Part) or a specified 
related corporation (meaning a specified related corporation prescribed in Article 
116-3, Paragraph 2 of the Cabinet Office Order on Financial Instruments Business 
(Cabinet Office Order No.52 of 2007); the same shall apply hereinafter in this Part) 
concerning the effectiveness of payment of the principal and interest or is a security 
which the Exchange deems appropriate pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules; 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made satisfies following a. through 
f.:  
a. The total nominal amount of an exchangeable corporate bond is JPY 2 billion or more; 
 b. The redemption conditions pertaining to redemption of a domestic stock or a foreign 
stock are not deemed inappropriate pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules; 
c. Such issue shall be subject to the book-entry transfer operation of a         
designated book-entry transfer institution, or is likely to be so by the time of listing.; 
d. Face value shall be JPY 5 million, JPY 4 million, JPY 3 million, JPY 2 million, JPY1 
million, JPY 500,000, or JPY 100,000; 
e. A domestic stock or a foreign stock (hereinafter referred to as an "exchange subject 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
122 
stock") pertaining to redemption of an exchangeable corporate bond with respect to 
a security for which an initial listing application is made is a single security; and 
f. The listing of a security is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of public 
interest or the protection of investors; and 
(3) The following a. or b. is satisfied: 
a. An exchange subject stock, etc. (meaning a stock, etc. or a foreign stock depositary 
receipt which represents a right pertaining to an exchange subject stock, etc.; the same 
shall apply hereinafter) is a listed stock, etc. on the Exchange; or 
b. The following (a) through (c) is satisfied: 
(a) An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of an issuer of an exchange subject stock or a company deemed 
to be a company equivalent thereto in accordance with the Enforcement Rules and, 
in addition, an issuer assures the matters referred to in the following (i) through (iii) 
in writing: 
(i) An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made is in 
circumstances to be able to appropriately understand corporate information of an 
issuer of an exchange subject stock; 
(ii) An issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made discloses 
corporate information of an issuer of an exchange subject stock in compliance 
with the provisions of Part 2, Chapter 4, Section 2; and 
(iii)An issuer of such exchange subject stock agrees to the matters referred to in the 
preceding (ii) and those specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(b) An exchange subject stock, etc. is a stock, etc. listed on another financial instruments 
exchange in Japan or a stock listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial 
instruments exchange, etc. and deemed to be traded from Japan without any 
difficulty; and 
(c) Prices of an exchange subject stock, etc. are deemed immediately available in Japan. 
2. The provisions of Item (2) of the preceding paragraph shall not apply to listing examination 
in cases falling under any of the following items; provided, however, that it is required that 
they do not fall under each item of Rule 936, Paragraph 2: 
(1) Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a security to be 
delisted from the Exchange by an issuer being merged by another company by means 
of an absorption-type merger or an issuer carrying out a consolidation-type merger; or 
(2) Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a security to be 
delisted from the Exchange by an issuer making another company assume obligations 
pertaining to such security for which an initial listing application is made by means of 
an incorporation-type company split or an absorption-type company split.  
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs, where a listed company 
or an unlisted company whose stock, etc. is listed on another financial instruments exchange 
becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of another company by a share exchange or a share 
transfer, and a bond with subscription warrant issued by a company which becomes such 
wholly-owned subsidiary is to be delisted from a financial instruments exchange in Japan 
and, in addition, where payment pertaining to an exchangeable corporate bond (limited to 
cases where an exchange subject stock is a stock, etc. issued by such other company) issued 
by a company which becomes such wholly-owned subsidiary may be made for such bond 
with subscription warrant, listing examination of such exchangeable corporate bond shall 
be made pursuant to the criteria referred to in each of the following items; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where a company which becomes such 
wholly-owned subsidiary is an unlisted company whose stock, etc. is listed on another 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
123 
financial instrument exchange in Japan and additionally where such other company is not a 
listed company: 
(1) All entities who desire payment for an issue of a security for which an initial listing 
application is made may carry out such payment in exchange for such bond with 
subscription warrant; and 
(2) Paragraph 1, Item (1), c., Item (2), b. through f., and Item (3) shall be satisfied and, in 
addition, Rule 936, Paragraph 2, Item (1) shall not be satisfied. 
 
Rule 930.  Disclosure of Corporate Information 
1. An issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed exchangeable corporate bond shall make 
efforts to carry out such faithful execution of business as strengthening prompt, accurate and 
fair disclosure of corporate information at all times from the viewpoint of investors with full 
recognition that timely and appropriate disclosure of corporate information to investors is the 
basis of a sound securities market. 
2. An issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed exchangeable corporate bond shall carry 
out disclosure in compliance with the provisions of Rules 402 through 407, Rule 411, and 
Rule 411-2 in consideration of the characteristics of the listed exchangeable corporate bond.  
3. The provisions of Rules 413 through 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to disclosure by 
an issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed exchangeable corporate bond pursuant to 
the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 931.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 932.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. An issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed exchangeable corporate bond shall submit 
documents pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, where the Enforcement 
Rules so specify. 
2. In addition to the preceding paragraph, an issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed 
exchangeable corporate bond shall submit documents, etc. to the Exchange in compliance 
with the provisions of Rule 421, Paragraph 1, in consideration of the characteristics of a 
listed exchangeable corporate bond and shall additionally submit documents requested by 
the Exchange on the basis of an adequate cause without delay. 
3. The Exchange may make documents deemed appropriate by the Exchange, available for 
public inspection, out of the documents submitted by an issuer of a listed exchangeable 
corporate bond pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 933.  Deleted. 
  
Rule 934.  Setting Up Transfer Handling Offices, etc. 
1. With respect to a listed exchangeable corporate bond which can be exchangeable with stocks 
that are not handled in the book-entry transfer operation of a designated book-entry transfer 
institution, the issuer of said listed exchangeable corporate bond shall set up a stock delivery 
administrative work handling office or agency office pertaining to a listed exchangeable 
corporate bond in Chuo-ku, Chiyoda-ku or Minato-ku in Tokyo or any of the places specified 
by the Exchange.  
2. Where an issuer of a listed exchangeable corporate bond changes the handling office or 
agency office set up in accordance with the preceding paragraph, it shall submit its prior 
written notice to the Exchange. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
124 
Rule 935.  Selection of Agents, etc. of Issuers of Listed Foreign Exchangeable Corporate 
Bonds 
An issuer (excluding a listed company) of a listed foreign exchangeable corporate bond 
(meaning a security referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (17) of the Act, out of the listed 
exchangeable corporate bonds) shall select an entity that has an address or residence in Japan 
with the authority to act a proxy of or represent such issuer with respect to all acts in relation to 
the Exchange. 
 
Rule 936.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where an issuer of a listed exchangeable corporate bond falls under any of the following 
items in accordance with the classification of the cases referred to in each of the following 
items, all securities of exchangeable corporate bonds issued by such issuer shall be delisted. 
In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where an issuer is a listed company: 
Where an issuer falls under a case referred to in the following a. or b.: 
a. Where an issuer commits a material breach concerning a listing agreement pertaining 
to an exchangeable corporate bond as specified by the Enforcement Rules or where 
an issuer ceases to be a party to such listing agreement; or 
b. Where a stock, etc. issued falls under any of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Items (2) through 
(10), Item (19), or Item (20) (including cases in accordance with Rule 602, Paragraph 
1, Item (5)or Paragraph 2, Item (3) of the same rule), or the main clause in Rule 602, 
Paragraph 2, Item (2); or 
(2) Where an issuer is not a listed company: 
Where an issuer falls under a case referred to in the following a. or b.: 
a. Where an issuer commits a material breach concerning a listing agreement pertaining 
to an exchangeable corporate bond as specified by the Enforcement Rules or where 
an issuer ceases to be a party to such listed agreement or where an issuer commits a 
material breach in a matter specified by the Enforcement Rules; or 
b. Where Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (8) (excluding cases falling under Rule 503, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2), b.), or Rule 912, Paragraph 1, Item (2), a. (b), ii or iii is met or 
where the Exchange deems that the situation is in the same as that of suspension of 
business activities, dissolution or in a status equivalent to these. 
2. Where a listed exchangeable corporate bond falls under any of the following items, it shall 
be delisted. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) Where the total listed nominal amount becomes less than JPY 300 million by the day a 
month before the day on which the final redemption date arrives; 
(2) Where redemption is no longer made in the form of an exchange subject stock ; 
(3) Where an issuer of a listed exchangeable corporate bond loses the right of benefit of 
term with respect to such security; 
(3)-2 Where such issue ceases to be subject to the book-entry transfer operation of the 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(4) Where the exchange subject stock ceases to be a single security; 
(5) Where obligations pertaining to a listed security are assumed by another company 
because of an absorption-type company split or an incorporation-type company split; or 
(6) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting is 
appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
3. Where an exchange subject stock, etc. pertaining to a listed exchangeable corporate bond 
falls under any of the following items in accordance with the classification of the cases 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
125 
referred to in each of the following items, it shall be delisted; provided, however, that the 
same shall not apply to cases where Item (1) or Item (2), a. is met because of a dissolution 
caused by a merger of an issuer of an exchange subject stock, etc. or an issuer being made 
a wholly-owned subsidiary because of a share exchange or share transfer and where the 
exchange subject stock, etc. after such merger, share exchange or  share transfer falls under 
Rule 929, Paragraph 1, Item (3), a. or b. (including cases where the Exchange has approved 
of its listing with respect to a. of the same item): 
(1) Where an exchange subject stock, etc. is a listed stock, etc. on the Exchange: 
Where an exchange subject stock falls under any of the criteria referred to in Rules 601 
and Rule 602; or 
(2) In cases other than a case referred to in the preceding item: 
Where any of the following a. or b. is met: 
a. Where it is deemed impossible or extremely difficult to trade an exchange subject 
stock, etc. from Japan, because the stock, etc. has been delisted from or ceases to be 
continuously traded on another financial instrument exchange in Japan or a foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc.; or 
b. Where it is deemed to have fallen in a situation that the prices of an exchange subject 
stock, etc. are not immediately available in Japan. 
    
Rule 937.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed exchangeable corporate bond is 
decided shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules 
 
Rule 938.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed exchangeable corporate bond is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed exchangeable corporate bond as a security under supervision to make 
investors aware of that fact pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 939.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed exchangeable corporate bond is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed exchangeable corporate bond as a security to be delisted for a period until 
the day before the delisting date pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to make 
investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 940.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer who makes an application for initial listing of a listed exchangeable corporate bond 
and an issuer of a listed exchangeable corporate bond shall pay an initial listing fee, annual 
listing fee and any other fees relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules. 
 
Chapter 4 
ETNs 
 
Rule 941.  ETN Initial Listing Application  
1. Initial listing of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall be made upon an application 
by the issuer of an ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to such ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate (hereinafter referred to as "issuer of an ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate pertaining to an initial listing application" in this Chapter). 
2. In the case where the initial listing application issue falls under Rule 945, Paragraph 2, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
126 
Item (1) (limited to the portion pertaining to a consolidation-type merger), or Item (2) 
(limited to the portion pertaining to an incorporation-type company split), even before 
the establishment of such issuer (where a guarantor (meaning a guarantor specified in 
Rule 944, Paragraph 3; the same shall apply hereinafter in this paragraph) is present, 
and the guarantor conducts a consolidation-type merger or an incorporation-type 
company split prescribed in Rule 945, Paragraph 2, Item (1) or Item (2), such 
guarantor), such issuer may file an initial listing application provided that it is done 
after a resolution of a general shareholders meeting of the issuer which conduct a 
consolidation-type merger or an incorporation-type company split. In this case, an 
initial listing application shall be conducted by such issuer (where a guarantor is present 
and the guarantor conducts a consolidation-type merger or an incorporation-type 
company split, the issuer of such initial listing application issue). 
3. In cases where an ETN trust beneficiary certificate is not initially listed within one (1) 
year counting from the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the 
preceding two paragraphs, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate, for which an initial listing 
application is made by the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to 
an initial listing application, shall be conducted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 945.
 
Rule 942.  Listing Agreement, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists an ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial 
listing application, the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to such 
initial listing application shall submit a "Listing Agreement for an ETN Trust 
Beneficiary Certificate" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. However, in cases where the issuer of the ETN, which is the 
entrusted security pertaining to the listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate (hereinafter 
referred to as "listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate issuer" in this Chapter) makes an 
application for initial listing of another ETN trust beneficiary certificate, such 
submission is not required. 
2. The Listing Agreement in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the 
listing date of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to the initial listing 
application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date 
of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to the initial listing application. 
 
Rule 943.  Designation of Qualified Indicators 
1. When the Exchange approves the listing of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate 
pertaining to an initial listing application, the Exchange shall designate the indicator 
pertaining to such ETN trust beneficiary certificate as an indicator meeting the 
requirements prescribed in Rule 945, Paragraph 1, Item (3), b. 
2. In cases where the indicator pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficial certificate is 
changed to a new indicator, and the delisting criteria is not applicable, the Exchange 
shall designate the indicator after the change pertaining to such listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate as the indicator that meets the requirement specified in Rule 945, 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), b. 
 
Rule 944.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc.
1. An entity who intends to make an application for initial listing of an ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate shall submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
127 
predetermined by the Exchange which contains the matters specified by the 
Enforcement Rules and a "Written Oath Pertaining to Initial Listing Application" 
predetermined by the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules.  
2. Documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial 
Listing Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph. 
3. Where, an entity other than the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining 
to the initial listing application provides an appropriate guarantee as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules (hereinafter referred to as "guarantor" in this Chapter) on the ETN 
which is an entrusted security pertaining to the initial listing application, such issuer 
shall submit the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
4. Where an initial listing application is made before establishment pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 941, Paragraph 2 it shall be deemed sufficient if, out of the 
documents specified in Paragraph 2, documents which could not be submitted at the 
time of the initial listing application (out of documents specified in the Enforcement 
Rules, limited to those deemed to be unavoidable by the Exchange on a case-by-case 
basis) were submitted immediately after such submission was possible. 
5. Where the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing 
application gives notification or submits notice concerning an offering or secondary 
distribution of the initial listing application issue to the Prime Minister, etc. during the 
period after the corresponding date from a year before the end of the business year 
immediately prior to the initial listing application day and before the day on which the 
listing is made, or where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement 
Rules, it shall submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
6. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request the issuer of 
an initial listing application pertaining to an ETN trust beneficiary certificate to submit 
an informational report or materials in addition to the documents prescribed in each of 
the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
7. Where the Exchange approves the listing of an issue for which an initial listing 
application has been made, the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining 
to the initial listing application shall agree that, out of the documents submitted pursuant 
to the provisions of Paragraphs 2 and 5, the Exchange will make documents specified 
by the Enforcement Rules available for public inspection before and after the listing. 
 
Rule 945.  Criteria for Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall be carried out pursuant 
to the criteria referred to in each of the following items. In this case, the handling of 
such criteria shall be specified in the Enforcement Rules (the necessary matters related 
to Item (3), b. shall be provided in the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, 
etc.). 
(1) The issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing 
application shall satisfy the following a. through e. (where a guarantor is present, such 
guarantor shall satisfy a. through e., and such issuer shall satisfy c. through e. In this 
case, "issuer of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial application 
listing" in b. shall read "issuer or guarantor of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate 
pertaining to an initial application listing".) 
a. An issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing 
application shall be a registered financial institution (meaning a registered financial 
institution prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 11 of the Act; the same shall apply
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
128 
hereinafter in this Chapter), a financial instruments business operator, such 
equivalent, or an entity specified in the Enforcement Rules; 
b. It shall be required that an issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining 
to an initial listing application have conducted the business activities for more than three
years ago calculated from the end of the business year prior to the business year containing 
the initial listing application date.  Where the issuer of an ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate pertaining to an initial application listing is a company that is established 
through a consolidation-type merger, share transfer, or incorporation-type company 
split, it shall be required that the business activities have been carried out 
continuously since such establishment, and three years have elapsed as of  the end 
of the business year prior to the business year containing the initial listing application 
date. 
c. No false statement shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. which contain 
or make reference to financial statements, etc. for each business year or each 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last two years ("last" years are 
counted from the end of the base business year (meaning the most recent business 
year for which financial statements, etc. are presented in the financial information 
section of the annual securities report, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter in this 
Chapter); the same shall apply hereinafter in this Chapter.) or interim financial 
statements, etc. for an interim accounting period in each business year or for an 
interim consolidated accounting period in each consolidated accounting year; 
provided, however, that this shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules 
specify otherwise; 
d. The audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each business year or each 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last two years (excluding an audit 
report attached to financial statements, etc. for a business year and a consolidated 
accounting year which ended in the last year) shall contain an "unqualified opinion" 
or a "qualified opinion with exceptions" of certified public accountants, etc.; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise; and 
e. The audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for the business year and 
consolidated accounting year which ended in the last year as well as the interim audit 
report or interim review report attached to interim financial statements, etc. for the 
interim accounting period for the business year which ended in the last year and the 
interim consolidated accounting period for the consolidated accounting year which 
ended in the last year shall contain an "unqualified opinion", "opinion that the interim 
financial statements, etc. provide useful information" or "unqualified conclusion" of 
certified public accountants, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
the cases specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(2) The issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate (where a guarantor is present, 
such guarantor) shall satisfy the following a. through c. at the end of the base business 
year 
a. The amount of net assets (in the case of a financial instruments business operator, 
amount of net worth; the same shall apply hereinafter.) shall be JPY 500 billion or 
more. 
b. In accordance with the classification of the following (a) through (e), such (a) 
through (e) shall be satisfied. 
(a) An Internationally active bank, etc.: An Internationally Active Bank shall 
satisfy the following (i) through (iii). 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
129 
(i) Common equity Tier 1 Ratio (in cases of the Norinchukin Bank and an 
Internationally Active Shinkin Bank, common equity contribution Tier 1 
Ratio) shall be above 4.5%. 
(ii) Tier 1 Capital Ratio shall be above 6%. 
(iii) Total Capital Ratio shall be above 8%. 
(b) A registered financial institution excluding Internationally Active Banks and 
other than Insurance company:  
        Capital adequacy ratio shall be above 8%. 
      (c) An insurance company: 
The solvency margin ratio shall be above 400%. 
(d) A financial instruments business operator: 
The capital-to-risk ratio shall be above 200%. 
      (e) An entity other than those referred to in the above (a) through to the preceding 
(d): 
The level indicating soundness of finances equivalent to the criteria specified 
in (a) through the preceding (d) is above a level deemed to be appropriate by 
the Exchange. 
c. It shall be an entity who has been granted a rating of A- (minus) (including a rating 
deemed to be equivalent to A- (minus)) or more by a credit rating agency or a 
specified related corporation. 
(3) The initial listing application issue shall satisfy the following a. through k. 
a. The content of the following (a) through (c) is described in the issuance agreement, 
issuance program of the ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to the initial 
listing application issue or any document similar thereto, or the trust agreement 
pertaining to the initial listing application issue. 
(a) The fact that a request for redeeming a certain amount or value or more from an 
entity who is a holder of the ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to the 
initial listing application issue shall be responded to within a period no greater than 
five business days from the prior redemption date. 
(b) The fact that a request for purchasing a certain amount or value or more from an 
entity who is a holder of the initial listing application issue shall be responded to 
within a period no greater than five business days from the prior purchase date. 
(c) The fact that the redemption value or purchase value shall be calculated based on 
a specific indicator. 
a-2. There shall be no description in the issuance agreement, issuance program of the 
ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to the initial listing application issue 
or any document similar thereto, or the trust agreement pertaining to the initial 
listing application issue to the effect that early redemption of the ETN which is the 
entrusted security pertaining to such initial listing application issue or cancellation 
of trust agreement will be made subject to fluctuation in the value of a specific 
indicator, the redemption value or the purchase value (excluding the description to 
the effect that early redemption of ETN or cancellation of trust agreement will be 
made if the value of a specific indicator, the redemption value or the purchase value 
falls to or below zero (0), or other descriptions deemed appropriate by the 
Exchange     
b. In accordance with the classifications of the indicators pertaining to the initial 
listing application issue referred to in the following (a) and (b), such (a) or (b) must 
be satisfied. 
 (a) Indicators other than leveraged/inverse indicators (meaning an indicator which 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
130 
amplifies or inverts the rate of change or rate of fluctuation of another indicator 
(hereinafter referred to as "underlying indicator") by methods including 
multiplying the fluctuations of the underlying indicator by a certain numerical 
value; the same shall apply hereinafter.) 
  The matters referred to in Rule 1104, Paragraph 1, Item (2), d-(a), i. through v. 
shall be satisfied. 
 (b) Leveraged/inverse indicators  
  The matters referred to in Rule 1104, Paragraph 1, Item (2), d-(a), i. and iv., and d-
(b) ii. through iv. shall be satisfied. 
c. At the time of initial listing, the period until the end of the final redemption date as 
well as the period until the termination of the trust agreement of the ETN which is 
the entrusted security of the initial listing application issue shall be more than five
years. 
d. The sum of the total remaining redemption value (including amounts which 
guarantee the redemption of foreign indicator-tracking securities issued by other 
companies (limited to those listed on domestic financial instruments exchanges or 
foreign financial instruments exchanges, etc.)) of the issuer of the ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate (limited to those listed on domestic financial instruments 
exchanges or foreign financial instruments exchanges, etc.) pertaining to the initial 
listing application (where a guarantor is present, such guarantor; the same shall 
apply hereinafter in this d.) and the scheduled issuance value of the ETN to be issued 
upon the initial listing shall not exceed 25% of the amount of net assets of the issuer.
e. The initial listing application issue shall satisfy the following (a) and (b). 
(a) A trading participant designated by the Exchange as prescribed in Rule 68 of the 
Business Regulations is expected to be designated by the time of listing of the
initial listing application issue with a view to ensure circulation of the initial 
listing application issue in the Exchange market. 
(b) No factor which hinders smooth trading and fair price formation of the initial 
listing application issue is recognized. 
f. An initial listing application issue is subject to handling of the book-entry transfer 
operation, etc. of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or is expected to be 
handled by the time of listing. 
g. An ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing application 
issue is listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc., or is expected to be so (excluding cases where an issuer is not a foreign entity 
when there is no guarantor or where the guarantor is not a foreign entity). 
h. Laws have been developed for the issuance of an ETN which is the entrusted security 
pertaining to the initial listing application issue, and administrative agencies are 
supervising the issuer of the ETN trust beneficiary certificate (where a guarantor is
present, such guarantor) (excluding cases where an issuer is not a foreign entity 
when there is no guarantor or where the guarantor is not a foreign entity). 
i. The issuance agreement or issuance program of the ETN which is the entrusted 
security pertaining to the initial listing application issue, or any document similar 
thereto, contains content describing that an appropriate guarantee is provided 
(limited to cases where a guarantor is present). 
j. A trust agreement and other documents pertaining to the initial listing application 
issue are concluded pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
k. The listing of a security is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the public 
interest or the protection of investors. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
131 
2. The provisions of the preceding Item (1), Item (2), or Item (3), c. shall not apply to the 
listing examination in cases falling under any of the following items; provided, 
however, that it is required that they do not fall under each criteria referred to in Rule 
951, Paragraph 1, Item (1) and Item (2). 
(1) Where an initial listing application issue is a security to be delisted from the 
Exchange due to such issuer (where a guarantor is present, such guarantor) being 
merged by another company by means of an absorption-type merger or an issuer 
carrying out a consolidation-type merger; 
(2) Where an initial listing application issue is a security to be delisted from the Exchange 
by an issuer (where a guarantor is present, such guarantor) making another company 
assume obligations pertaining to such initial listing application issue due to an 
incorporation-type company split or an absorption-type company split. 
 
Rule 946.  Alteration Listing Application 
1. Where an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate intends to alter the name 
of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or the name of an ETN which is the entrusted 
security of the listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, it shall make an application for 
such an alteration by submitting a "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" 
predetermined by the Exchange; provided, however, that in the cases where mattes to be 
described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" are included in the disclosure 
of information pursuant to the provisions of the following rule or documents submitted to the 
Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 948, the Exchange shall deem that the issuer
makes an application for such an alteration by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where the Exchange makes an alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger 
on the date of such alteration listing. 
 
Rule 947.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed ETN 
1. An issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall fully acknowledge that 
timely and appropriate disclosure of information to investors is the basis of a sound 
securities market and make efforts to carry out such faithful execution of business as 
strengthening prompt, accurate and fair disclosure of information at all times from the 
viewpoint of investors. 
2. Where a security falls under any of the following items, an issuer of a listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate shall disclose such content immediately pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where an issuer or guarantor of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate has decided
to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through q. (including 
cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision). 
a. Secondary distribution of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
b. Split or reverse split of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
c. Merger; 
d. Company split (limited to cases where the whole business is inherited); 
e. Transfer of whole business; 
f. Dissolution (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
g. Application for delisting of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate to a domestic 
financial instruments exchange or application for delisting of an ETN to a foreign 
financial instruments exchange (limited to a listed foreign ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate or an ETN pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate); 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
132 
h. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, 
 
rehabilitation 
proceedings, or reorganization proceedings; 
i. Change in trade name or corporate name; 
j. Change in the name of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or an ETN pertaining 
to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
j-2. Change of a specific indicator pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate to a new indicator;  
k. Change in the end date of the business year; 
l. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification, etc. of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports;  
m. Putting notes on matters relating to the going concern assumption in financial 
statements, etc., interim financial statements, etc. or quarterly financial statements, 
etc. prescribed in Rule 404, Paragraph 2; 
m-2. Submission of application for approval prescribed in Article 15-2, Paragraph 1, 
Article 15-2-2, Paragraph 1, Article 17-4, Paragraph 1, or Article 18-2, Paragraph 1 
of the Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure pursuant to the provisions of such 
paragraphs (excluding submission due to laws and regulations or practices in their 
home country); 
n. Discontinuation of financial instruments business or registered financial institution 
business, or any business similar thereto; or business specified in the Enforcement 
Rules; 
o. Additional issuance of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or purchase of a 
listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, or temporary suspension of requests 
pertaining to additional issuance or redemption of an ETN which is the entrusted 
security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
p. Early redemption of all or part of an ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining 
to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, change in the final redemption date, 
suspension of applications for requests pertaining to redemption in connection with 
the arrival of the final redemption date or determination of the final redemption 
value, an important change in the issuance agreement or issuance program of the 
ETN which is the entrusted security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or 
any document similar thereto, or convocation of a bondholders meeting and any 
other important matters relating to rights concerning an ETN which is the entrusted 
security of such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
q. Other than matters referred to in the preceding a. through p., important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of the issuer or guarantor of such listed 
ETN trust beneficiary certificate, such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, or an 
ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining to such listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate which have a significant impact on investors' investment decisions. 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through k. has occurred at an 
issuer or guarantor of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate. 
a. A fact that causes delisting of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
b. Ceasing to be an entity who conducts financial instruments business or registered 
financial institution business, or any business similar thereto, or business specified 
in the Enforcement Rules; 
c. Suspension of operations pertaining to financial instruments business, registered 
financial institution business, or any business similar thereto, or any other 
disciplinary action equivalent to these on the basis of laws and regulations by an 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
133 
administrative agency, and any other fact specified in the Enforcement Rules; 
d. Petition or notification for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, 
rehabilitation proceedings, or reorganization proceedings, or execution of enterprise 
mortgage by a creditor or any entity other than such listed company; 
e. Dishonor of a bill or a check, etc.; 
f. Acceleration of obligations pertaining to an ETN which is the entrusted security of 
a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
g. Early redemption of all or part of an ETN which is the entrusted security pertaining 
to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, change in the final redemption date, an 
important change in the issuance agreement or issuance program of the ETN which 
is the entrusted security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or any document 
similar thereto, or convocation of a bondholders meeting and any other important 
matters relating to rights concerning an ETN which is the entrusted security of such 
listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
h. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports (in cases where the decision to 
change in certified public accountant, etc. was made by an institution which makes 
business execution decisions (excluding cases where the body which decides 
business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, etc. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
item); 
i. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached
audit report, interim audit report or interim review report specified in Article 3, 
Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or 
more certified public accountants or an audit firm is not expected to be submitted to 
the Prime Minister, etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 of the 
Act or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act (excluding cases of conducting disclosure 
on the matter referred to in m-2 of the preceding item pursuant to the provision of 
such item) or has not been submitted within such period (except cases where 
disclosure has been made that said report is unlikely to be submitted within said
period), was submitted after such disclosure had been made, or approval has been 
received from the Prime Minister, etc. for the extension of said period; 
i-2. Obtaining or failure to obtain approval prescribed in Article 15-2, Paragraph 3, 
Article 15-2-2, Paragraph 4, Article 17-4, Paragraph 4, or Article 18-2, Paragraph 4 
of the Cabinet Office Order on Disclosure 
j. Where the total remaining redemption value (including the amount which guarantees 
redemption of an ETN issued by another company) of an ETN to be issued (limited 
to a security listed on a domestic financial instruments exchange or a foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter to this j.) 
exceeds or is expected to exceed 25% of the amount of net assets of the issuer (where 
a guarantor is present, such guarantor); 
k. Other than facts referred to in the preceding a. through j., important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of the issuer or guarantor of such listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate, such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, or an ETN 
which is the entrusted security of such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate which 
have a significant impact on investors' investment decisions. 
(3) Where details of the financial results pertaining to the business year or interim 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
134 
accounting period, or consolidated accounting year or interim consolidated 
accounting period of the issuer or guarantor of a listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate are fixed (excluding cases where the issuer or guarantor of a listed ETN 
trust beneficiary certificate is a listed company). 
(4) Where an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate conducts disclosure 
pursuant to the preceding item or Rule 404, or a guarantor of a listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate conducts disclosure pursuant to Rule 404, and the information 
on its credit situation, etc. as specified in the Enforcement Rules is finalized. 
(5) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through c. has occurred to an 
issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate (where a guarantor is present, such 
guarantor): 
a. Change in credit rating or change in credit rating pertaining to an ETN which is 
the entrusted security pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate 
(limited to cases where a credit rating pertaining to an ETN which is the entrusted 
security pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate is obtained); 
b. The amount of net assets has fallen or is expected to fall below JPY 250 billion ;  
c. In accordance with the divisions of the following (a) through (e), facts referred to 
in such (a) through (e) occurred. 
(a) Internationally Active Banks: 
Any of the facts referred to in the following (i) through (iii) has occurred. 
         (i) Common equity Tier 1 Ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 
4.5%. 
(ii) Tier 1 Capital Ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 6%. 
(iii) Total Capital Ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 8%. 
(b) Registered financial institution excluding Internationally Active Banks  
and other than an insurance company: 
The capital adequacy ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 8%. 
(c) Insurance company: 
       The solvency margin ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 400%. 
(d) Financial instruments business operator: 
      The net capital regulation ratio has fallen or is expected to fall to or below 200%.
(e) An entity other than those referred to in (a) through the preceding (d): 
The level indicating soundness of finances equivalent to the criteria specified in 
(a) through the preceding (d) has fallen or is expected to fall below a level deemed 
to be appropriate by the Exchange. 
(6) Where a fact regarding a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate that will have a 
material effect on the circulation of such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or 
an ETN which is the entrusted security of such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate 
has occurred in a region other than Japan. 
(7) Where an issuer or guarantor of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, or a trustee 
pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate changes or terminates the trust 
agreement or any other agreement specified in Rule 951, Paragraph 1, Item (3), i, or 
makes any other decision on a matter which will have a significant impact on rights, 
etc. related to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, or where a fact that has a 
significant impact on such rights, etc. has occurred. 
(8) Where the following (a) or (b) is applicable or any other material deviation that has 
an impact on investment decisions has occurred between the redemption value per 
security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate and its market price or specific 
indicator, or any of these are likely to become applicable: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
135 
a. When the deviation between the redemption value per security of a listed ETN
trust beneficiary certificate and the closing price of the market price (meaning the 
absolute value of the value obtained by dividing the closing price in the trading 
session by the redemption value per security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate and subtracting 1, expressed as a percentage; the same shall apply in 
this item) is 20% or more; or 
b. When the deviation between the redemption value per security of a listed ETN
trust beneficiary certificate and the closing price of the market price is 5% or 
more for seven consecutive business days. 
(9) Where an entity calculating a specific indicator pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate discloses that the entity has decided to cease calculating such an indicator.  
3. The provisions of Rule 411-2, Rule 413 through Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to disclosure by an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate pursuant 
to the provisions of the preceding paragraph 
 
Rule 947-2. Provision of Information Concerning Listed ETN 
1. An issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall provide investors with 
information on said listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate referred to in each of the 
following items via the method of making available for public inspection. In this case, 
details of Items (1) and (2) shall be prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) The daily total remaining redemption value and redemption value per security of a 
ETN which is the entrusted security of the listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate;
(2) The tracking performance of fluctuation between the redemption value per security 
of a ETN which is the entrusted security of the listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate and the specific indicator; 
(3) Characteristics of the calculation of and points for attention regarding enhanced 
indicators (indicators for which the investment strategy is described as achieving a
certain level of investment performance by allocating assets to a combination of
multiple assets; the same shall apply hereinafter), leveraged/inverse indicators,
indicators referring to the price of commodity futures contracts or similar
(indicators that use commodity futures contracts or other futures contracts for 
which it is deemed necessary by the Exchange; the same shall apply hereinafter),
and currency-hedged indicators (indicators for which the investment strategy is
described as achieving investment performance that reduces the risk of increases 
or decreases in profits or losses due to exchange rate fluctuations; the same shall 
apply hereinafter); 
(4) The total expense ratio of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate; and  
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange. 
2. The issuer prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall submit the documents to the 
Exchange describing the method of information provision pursuant to the provisions 
of preceding paragraph 
3. The issuer shall agree that the Exchange makes documents submitted to the Exchange 
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph available for public inspection. 
Rule 948.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. An issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall, in cases where specified in 
the Enforcement Rules, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, submit 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. An issuer of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall agree to submit documents, other 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
136 
than those in the preceding paragraph, requested based on justifiable reasons by the 
Exchange without delay and that, out of such documents submitted, the Exchange will 
make documents deemed necessary available for public inspection. 
 
Rule 949.  Selection of Agents of Issuers, etc. 
An issuer (excluding non-foreign entities and listed companies) of a listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate shall, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, select 
an entity that has an address or residence in Japan with the authority to act as a proxy of 
or represent such issuer with respect to all acts in relation to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 950.  Code of Conduct Concerning Listed ETN 
1. An issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall not conduct a reverse split 
or split of the listed foreign indicator-tracking securities trust beneficiary certificate 
which is likely to disrupt the secondary market or infringe upon unit-holder interests. 
2. An issuer prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall endeavor to provide investors 
with information which contribute smooth trading and fair price formation.  
Rule 951.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate falls under any of the following items, 
the Exchange shall delist it. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate falls under any of the 
following a. through g. (where a guarantor is present, such guarantor falls under any 
of the following a. through g. or such issuer falls under such e. through g. In this 
case, "issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate" in f. shall read "issuer or 
guarantor of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate".) 
a. Where an issuer ceases to be a registered financial institution, financial instruments 
business operator, such equivalent, or an entity specified in the Enforcement Rules;
b. Where the Exchange deems that an issuer suspends its business activities, 
dissolves, or falls into a situation corresponding to this; 
c. Where a bill, etc. issued by an issuer is dishonored and bank transactions are 
suspended or their suspension becomes certain; 
d. Where it becomes necessary for an issuer to enter bankruptcy proceedings, 
rehabilitation proceedings or reorganization proceedings on the basis of the 
provisions of laws, or falls into a situation equivalent to these; 
e. Where an issuer makes a false statement in an annual securities report, etc. and the 
Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the market if the 
ETN is not delisted immediately; 
f. Concerning an audit report attached to financial statements, etc., or an interim audit 
report or interim review report attached to interim financial statements, etc., where 
certified public accountants state an "adverse opinion" or "disclaimer of opinion" 
in an audit report, an "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. do not 
provide useful information" or "disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit report, 
or an "adverse conclusion" or "disclaimer of conclusion" in an interim review 
report and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the 
market if the ETN is not delisted immediately; however, excluding cases where a 
"disclaimer of opinion" or "disclaimer of conclusion" is stated, and such statement 
is made due to reasons not attributable to the issuer of the listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate, such as act of providence; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
137 
g. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit 
report, an interim audit report or an interim review report as in Article 3, Paragraph 
1 of the Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more 
certified public accountants or an audit firm is attached is not submitted to the 
Prime Minister, etc. within a month (in cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, 
within a period specified by the Enforcement Rules) after a period specified in 
Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act passes (within three 
months in the event that such submission delay is due to reasons not attributable to 
the issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate such as an act of providence).;
(2) Where an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate (where a guarantor is 
present, such guarantor) falls under any of the following a. through c. as of the end 
of the business year. 
a. The amount of net assets has fallen below JPY 250 billion and fails to reach JPY 
250 billion or more within three years; 
b. In accordance with the divisions of the following (a) through (e), where falling 
under such (a) through (e). 
(a) Internationally Active Bank: 
(i) Common equity Tier 1 Ratio has fallen to or below 4.5% and does not 
become above 4.5% within three years. 
(ii) Tier 1 Capital Ratio has fallen to or below 6% and does not become above 
6% within three years. 
(iii) Total Capital Ratio has fallen to or below 8% and does not become above 
8% within three years. 
(b) Registered financial institution excluding Internationally Active Banks  
and other than an insurance company: 
The capital adequacy ratio has fallen to or below 8% and does not become above 
8% within three years. 
(c) Insurance company: 
The solvency margin ratio has fallen to or below 400% and does not reach at 
least 400% within three years. 
(d) Financial instruments business operator: 
The net capital regulation ratio has fallen to or below 200% and does not reach 
at least 200% within three years. 
(e) An entity other than those referred to in (a) through the preceding (d): 
The level indicating soundness of finances equivalent to the criteria specified 
in (a) through the preceding (d) has fallen below a level deemed to be appropriate 
by the Exchange and does not reach such level within three years. 
c. Where an issuer has been given a credit rating below BBB- (minus) (including a rate 
deemed equivalent to BBB- (minus)) by a credit rating agency or a specified related 
corporation, and is not given a credit rating of BBB- (minus) or higher (including a rate 
deemed equivalent to BBB- (minus)) within three years or is not given a credit rating 
deemed equivalent or higher by the Exchange. 
(3) Where a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate falls under any of the following a. 
through j. 
a. Where there is a change in any of the following (a) through (d) in the issuance 
agreement or issuance program of the ETN which is the entrusted security of a listed 
ETN trust beneficiary certificate or any document similar thereto, or trust agreement 
pertaining to the listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate. 
(a) Where the provision in which a request to redeem at least a certain amount or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
138 
value from an entity who is a holder of an ETN which is the entrusted security 
pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall be responded to within 
a period no greater than five business days from the prior redemption date upon 
request ceases to exist; 
(b) Where the provision in which a request to purchase at least a certain amount or 
value from an entity who is a holder a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall 
be responded to within a period no greater than five business days from the prior 
purchase date upon request ceases to exist; 
(c) Where the provision to calculate redemption value or purchase value based on a 
specified indicator ceases to exist; or 
(d) Where the provision is established to the effect that early redemption of an ETN 
which is the entrusted security pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificate or cancellation of a trust agreement shall be made subject to fluctuation 
in the value of a specific indicator, the redemption value or the purchase value 
(excluding the provision to the effect that early redemption of ETN or cancellation 
of trust agreement shall be made if the value of a specific indicator, the redemption 
value or the purchase value falls to or below zero (0), or other provisions deemed 
appropriate by the Exchange).     
b. The correlation coefficient between the redemption value per security of an ETN 
which is the entrusted security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate and a 
specified indicator is less than 0.9 and does not reach 0.9 or more within one (1) 
year. 
c. The total remaining redemption value (including the amount which guarantees 
redemption of foreign indicator-tracking securities issued by another company) of 
an ETN (limited to those listed on a domestic financial instruments exchange or 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter in 
this c.) issued by an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate (where a 
guarantor is present, such guarantor; the same shall apply hereinafter in this c.) 
exceeds 25% of the amount of net assets of the issuer and does not fall to or below 
25% within three years. 
d. Where falling under any of the following (a) through (c). 
(a) Where the final redemption date of the ETN which is the entrusted security of a 
listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate arrives; 
(b) Where there is acceleration of obligations pertaining to an ETN which is the 
entrusted security of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; or 
(c) Where obligations pertaining to an ETN which is the entrusted security of a 
listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate are assumed by another company due to 
an absorption-type company split or an incorporation-type company split . 
e. Where an entity who has concluded a listing agreement pertaining to a listed ETN 
trust beneficiary certificate has committed a material breach of the listing 
agreement, where such entity has committed a material breach as to matters taken 
on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 944, 
Paragraph 1, or where an entity who should conclude a listing agreement ceases to 
be a party to the listing agreement; 
f. Where such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate ceases to be subject to the book-
entry transfer operations of a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
g. Where delisting of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate from all foreign financial 
instruments exchanges, etc. on which an ETN, which is the entrusted security 
pertaining to such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, is listed or continuously 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
139 
traded is decided, or where the Exchange deems that circumstances have changed 
to a degree where market prices of such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, 
etc. on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. cannot be obtained 
immediately (excluding cases where an issuer is not a foreign entity when there is 
no guarantor or where the guarantor is not a foreign entity); provided, however, 
that the same shall not apply to cases where delisting is deemed to be inappropriate 
in consideration of reasons for delisting an ETN which is the entrusted security 
pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate from a foreign financial 
instruments exchange, etc. or in consideration of the trading status at the Exchange 
and any other event; 
h. Where there ceases to be description on providing appropriate guarantee in the 
issuance agreement or issuance program of the ETN which is the entrusted security 
of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate or any document similar thereto 
(limited to cases where a guarantor is present); 
i. Where the trust agreement specified in Rule 945, Paragraph 1, Item (3), j. and any 
other contract terminates; provided, however that, this shall not apply to cases where 
such trust agreement or any other contract terminates due to a change in the trustee
pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate; 
i-2. Where there ceases to be a specific indicator pertaining to a listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate; 
i-3. Where an indicator pertaining to a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate is 
changed to a new indicator or other similar cases are occurred, and when the 
Exchange deems that the indicator after the change does not meet Rule 945, 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), b., or when the Exchange deems that changes in such indicator 
have a significant impact on characteristics associated with a listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate;  
j. In addition to matters referred to in a. to the preceding i-3., where the Exchange 
deems it appropriate to delist such listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate from the 
viewpoint of the public interest or the protection of investors. 
2. In the case of Item (3), d (c) of the preceding paragraph, provided that this shall not 
apply to cases where the obligations pertaining to an ETN specified in the same (c) 
issued by an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate are assumed by another 
company, and, in addition, such other company submits a "Listing Agreement for an 
ETN trust beneficiary certificate". 
 
Rule 952.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness 
of delisting for a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate to request certified public 
accountants, etc. who perform an audit certification for financial statements, etc. or 
interim financial statements, etc., or an interim review for quarterly financial 
statements, etc. prescribed in Rule 404, Paragraph 2 (including those who have 
previously been said certified public accountants, etc.; the same shall apply in the 
following paragraph) to provide explanation or other information regarding a 
particular issue, the issuer of the listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall cooperate 
in this process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to an issuer prescribed in the preceding paragraph 
for the purpose of requiring said certified public accountants, etc. to provide 
explanations or other information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
140 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, said issuer shall promptly submit a document 
stating that it agrees to said certified public accountants, etc. providing said 
explanations or other information. 
 
Rule 953.  Delisting Date 
Where the delisting of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate is decided, handling of 
the delisting date shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 954.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate as securities under supervision in order to make investors aware of 
that fact. 
 
Rule 955.  Designation of Securities to Be Delisted 
Where a decision is made to delist a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate, the Exchange 
may designate, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed ETN trust 
beneficiary certificate as Securities to Be Delisted for a period until the day before the 
delisting date in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 956.  Fees Relating to Listing 
An issuer of an ETN trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing application 
or an issuer of a listed ETN trust beneficiary certificate shall pay a listing examination 
fee, an initial listing fee, an additional listing fee at the time of an additional issue, an 
annual listing fee and other fees relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
 
Chapter 5 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 957.  Application Mutatis Mutandis, etc. 
1. The provisions of Rule 429, Rule 606 and Rule 610 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
bonds, convertible bonds, exchangeable corporate bonds and ETN trust beneficiary 
certificates. Details in this case shall be as provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The provisions of Rule 301, Paragraphs 1, 2 and 8, Rule 305 and Rule 604 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to bonds, convertible bonds and exchangeable corporate bonds. Details in 
this case shall be as provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
3. The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination, etc. 
concerning disclosure of information on issues pertaining to listed bonds, listed 
exchangeable corporate bonds, and listed ETN trust beneficiary certificates. 
4. The provisions of Rule 425 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to listed ETN trust beneficiary 
certificates. 
5. The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring effectiveness with respect to issues pertaining to listed bonds, listed 
exchangeable corporate bonds and listed ETN trust beneficiary certificates. In this case, the 
Exchange shall deem that the provisions of Rule 947-2 are the provisions pertaining to 
disclosure of information concerning listed ETN by applying mutatis mutandis Rule 503, 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), Rule 504, Paragraph 1, Item (1), Rule 508, Paragraph 1, Item (1) and 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
141 
Rule 509, Paragraph 1, Item (1). 
6. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination concerning 
delisting of listed bonds, listed convertible bonds, listed exchangeable corporate bonds and 
listed ETN trust beneficiary certificates. 
 
 
Part 5 
ETFs 
 
Chapter 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 1001.  Definitions in Part 5 
The definitions of the terms referred to in each of the following items in Part 5 shall be as 
defined in each of such items: 
(1) An ETF means a domestic ETF, a foreign ETF, a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate, 
a domestic spot commodity ETF, a foreign spot commodity ETF, or a foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate; 
(2) A foreign ETF means a beneficiary certificate of a foreign investment trust prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act which is managed such that the fluctuation rate 
of the net asset value per unit of investment trust assets, etc. tracks the fluctuation rate of a 
specified indicator and a foreign investment security prescribed in Item (11) of the same 
paragraph which is managed such that the fluctuation rate of the net asset value per unit of 
investment trust assets, etc. tracks the fluctuation rate of a specified indicator; 
(3) A foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate means, out of securities trust beneficiary 
certificates prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order, a security trust 
beneficiary certificate whose entrusted security is a foreign ET; 
(4) A foreign spot commodity ETF means a security which has the characteristics of a 
beneficiary certificate of a beneficiary certificate issuing trust, out of the securities referred 
to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (17) of the Act, which aims to track prices of a specified 
commodity, and whose main trust assets are such specified commodities (limited to a 
security where a beneficiary owns equal rights corresponding to the number of units of the 
beneficiary rights pertaining to such beneficiary certificate); 
(5) A foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate means a beneficiary certificate 
where the entrusted security is a foreign spot commodity ETF, out of the securities trust 
beneficiary certificates prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order; 
(6) A foreign commodities market means a foreign commodities market prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 12 of the Commodity Derivatives Act (Act No. 239 of 1950). 
(7) A counterparty means an issuer of incorporated securities and the party to the contract 
pertaining to incorporated claims (in the case where a guarantor exists for such incorporated 
securities or such incorporated claims, such guarantor); 
(8) A management company means a company referred to in the following a. through f.: 
a. In cases of a domestic ETF, an investment trust management company (In cases of a 
domestic ETF which carries out management of investment trust assets as investment 
in commodities or rights pertaining to commodities investment, etc. trading (including 
its instructions; the same shall apply hereinafter), limited to an entity who has received 
the approval of Article 35, Paragraph 4 of the Act which applies by replacing the terms 
in Article 223-3, Paragraph 1 of Investment Trust Act concerning business pertaining to 
such management); 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
142 
b. In cases of a foreign ETF falling under a beneficiary certificate of a foreign investment 
trust, a corporation which has been established in accordance with foreign laws and 
regulations in a foreign country and carries out by profession any acts equivalent to the 
acts referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, Item (14) of the Act with respect to the trust 
assets pertaining to the foreign ETF in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in 
a foreign country; 
b-2. In cases of a foreign ETF falling under foreign investment securities, a corporation 
which is established in compliance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign 
country and, in addition, carries out acts corresponding to acts referred to in Article 2, 
Paragraph 8, Item (12) of the Act as its business with respect to assets pertaining to 
such foreign ETF pursuant to foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country;  
c. In cases of a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate whose entrusted securities are 
foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment trust beneficiary certificates, a 
corporation which has been established in accordance with foreign laws and regulations 
and carries out, in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country, by 
profession any acts equivalent to the acts referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, Item (14) 
of the Act with respect to the trust assets pertaining to a foreign ETF that is an entrusted 
security pertaining to a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate; 
c-2. In cases of a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate whose entrusted securities are 
foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities, a corporation which is 
established in compliance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country and, 
in addition, carries out acts corresponding to acts referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, 
Item (12) of the Act as its business with respect to assets pertaining to such foreign ETF 
pursuant to foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country;  
d. In cases of a domestic spot commodity ETF, an entity referred to in the following (a) 
or (b). 
(a) A financial instruments business operator which is an entrustor of a trust pertaining 
to said domestic spot commodity ETF (limited to a firm which conducts investment 
management business prescribed in Article 28, Paragraph 4 of the Act and also 
which carries out instructions of management or disposition (including supervision 
of management or disposition; the same shall apply hereinafter) of trust assets of 
such domestic spot commodity ETF, but excluding trust companies) or an entity 
entrusted by said financial instruments business operator with all or part of the 
authority pertaining to instruction of management or disposition of trust assets 
pertaining to such domestic spot commodity ETF; or 
(b) A registered financial institution which is a trustee pertaining to said domestic spot 
commodity ETF (limited to an institution, out of those which received the 
registration as prescribed in Article 33-2 of the Act, which conducts investment 
management business prescribed in Article 28, Paragraph 4 of the Act and also 
which carries out instructions of management or disposition of trust assets of such 
domestic spot commodity ETF; the same shall apply hereinafter) or an entity 
entrusted by said registered financial institution with all or part of the authority 
pertaining to instruction of management or disposition of trust assets pertaining to 
such domestic spot commodity ETF. 
e. In cases of a foreign spot commodity ETF, a corporation which has been established 
under foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country and carries out in a foreign 
country an act corresponding to an act referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, Item (14) 
of the Act as its business with respect to trust assets pertaining to such foreign spot 
commodity ETF pursuant to foreign laws and regulations and also which carries out all 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
143 
or part of instruction of management or disposition of trust assets of such foreign spot 
commodity ETF; and 
f. In cases of a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a corporation 
which has been established in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign 
country and carries out, under foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country, an act 
corresponding to an act referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, Item (14) of the Act as its 
business with respect to trust assets pertaining to a foreign spot commodity ETF which 
is a an entrusted security pertaining to such foreign spot commodity ETF trust 
beneficiary certificate and also which carries out all or part of instruction of 
management or disposition of trust assets of such foreign spot commodity ETF.  
(9) Incorporated claims means rights pertaining to a contract concluded with a specific entity 
for the purpose of achieving the investment performance of tracking a specific indicator and 
are incorporated into investment trust assets, etc. (limited to rights pertaining to over-the-
counter derivatives transactions prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 22 of the Act, rights 
pertaining to commodities investments, etc. transactions, and monetary claims referred to 
in Article 3, Item (7) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order; hereinafter the same 
shall apply in this rule.) 
(10) Incorporated securities mean securities which are issued for the purpose of achieving the 
investment performance of tracking a specific indicator and are incorporated into investment 
trust assets, etc.  
(11) A public and corporate bond investment trust means a public and corporate investment 
trust as prescribed in Rule 13, Item (2), Sub-item (a) of the Investment Trust Act 
Enforcement Regulation. 
(12) A designated participant means an entity described in the security registration statement, 
etc. for a domestic ETF or a domestic spot commodity ETF as an entity who handles 
offering of said domestic ETF or domestic spot commodity ETF; 
(12)-2 An indicator-tracking ETF means a domestic indicator-tracking ETF, a foreign ETF, a 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a domestic spot commodity ETF, a foreign spot 
commodity ETF, or a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate; 
(13) An indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF means an ETF whose purpose is to track 
a specific indicator via incorporating into investment trust assets, etc. securities issued or 
rights pertaining to a contract concluded with a specific entity; 
(14) A securities investment trust means a securities investment trust prescribed in Article 2, 
Paragraph 4 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(15) A listed ETF means an ETF listed on the Exchange; 
(16) A listed foreign ETF means a foreign ETF listed on the Exchange; 
(17) A listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate means a foreign ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate listed on the Exchange; 
(18) A listed foreign spot commodity ETF means a foreign spot commodity ETF listed on the 
Exchange; 
(19) A listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate means a foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate listed on the Exchange; 
(19)-2 A listed indicator-tracking ETF means an indicator-tracking ETF listed on the Exchange; 
(20) A listed indicator-tracking securities, etc. incorporated ETF means an indicator-tracking 
security, etc. incorporated ETF listed on the Exchange; 
(20)-2 A listed domestic actively managed ETF means a domestic actively managed ETF listed 
on the Exchange; 
(21) A listed domestic ETF means a domestic ETF listed on the Exchange; 
(21)-2 A listed domestic indicator-tracking ETF means a domestic indicator-tracking ETF listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
144 
on the Exchange; 
(22) A listed domestic spot commodity ETF means a domestic spot commodity ETF listed on 
the Exchange; 
(23) A commodity means a commodity as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 1 of the 
Commodity Derivatives Act; 
(24) Commodity Derivatives Act means the Commodity Derivatives Act (Act No. 239 of 1950); 
(25) A commodities market means a commodities market as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 
9 of the Commodity Derivatives Act. 
(26) A commodities investment, etc. trading means commodities investment, etc. trading as 
prescribed in Article 3, Item (10) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order. 
(27) A trustee means an entity referred to in the following a. through c.: 
a  In cases of a domestic ETF and a domestic spot commodity ETF, a trust company, etc.; 
b  In cases of foreign ETFs (limited to those falling under beneficiary certificates of 
foreign investment trusts) and foreign spot commodity ETFs, a corporation which has 
been established in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country 
and which is similar to a trust company, etc.; and 
c  In cases of foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates (limited to such ETFs whose 
entrusted securities are foreign ETFs falling under beneficiary certificates of foreign 
investment trusts) and foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificates, a 
corporation which is established in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a 
foreign country and which is similar to a trust company, etc. pertaining to foreign ETFs 
or foreign spot commodity ETFs which are entrusted securities pertaining to such 
beneficiary certificates; 
(28) A qualified institutional investor means a qualified institutional investor prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 3, Item (1) of the Act; 
(29) An investment trust asset, etc. means, (i) in cases where ETFs pertaining to an initial listing 
application or listed ETFs are beneficiary certificates of an investment trust, an investment 
trust asset of said investment trust; (ii) in cases of beneficiary certificates of a foreign 
investment trust or foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are 
beneficiary certificates of a foreign investment trust, investment trust assets of such foreign 
investment trust; and (iii) in cases of foreign investment securities or foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are foreign investment securities a, assets 
pertaining to such foreign investment securities;    
(29)-2 A domestic actively managed ETF means a beneficiary certificate of an investment trust 
as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act) (i) whose purpose is investing 
its investment trust assets mainly in securities, rights pertaining to derivative transactions, 
or rights pertaining to transactions related to commodities investment, etc. and (ii) for which 
there is no specific indicator that the fluctuation rate of the net asset value (NAV) per unit 
of investment trust assets is meant to track; 
(30) A domestic ETF means a domestic indicator-tracking ETF or a domestic actively managed 
ETF; 
(30)-2 A domestic indicator-tracking ETF means a beneficiary certificate of an investment trust 
as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act (i) whose purpose is investing 
its investment trust assets mainly in securities, rights pertaining to derivative transactions, 
or rights pertaining to commodities or transactions related to commodities investment, etc. 
and (ii) which pertains to an investment trust managed so that the fluctuation rate of the 
NAV per unit tracks the fluctuation rate in a specific indicator; and 
(31) A domestic spot commodity ETF means a beneficiary certificate of a beneficiary certificate 
issuing trust as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (14) of the Act which aims to track 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
145 
prices of a specified commodity and whose main trust assets are said specified commodities 
(limited to a beneficiary certificate with which a beneficiary owns equal rights 
corresponding to the number of units of the beneficiary rights pertaining to such beneficiary 
certificate); 
 
Chapter 2 
ETFs 
 
Rule 1101.  ETF Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of an ETF shall, in accordance with the classification of ETFs referred to in 
each of the following items, be made upon an application file by an entity prescribed in each 
of such items: 
(1) ETFs other than those referred to in the following item; 
The management company and the trustee pertaining to such ETF 
(2) Foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are such foreign ETFs; 
The foreign investment corporation and the management company pertaining to 
such ETF. 
2. In cases where an ETF is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from the date when 
the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, said initial 
listing application shall become invalid. 
3. Examination of an ETF pertaining to an initial listing application shall be made pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 1104 when said ETF is an indicator-tracking ETF and pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 1104-2 when said ETF is a domestic actively managed ETF. 
 
Rule 1102.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists an ETF pertaining to an initial listing application, an entity 
specified in the preceding rule shall submit a "Listing Agreement for an ETF" 
predetermined by the Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The Listing Agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the listing 
date of an ETF pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of 
an ETF pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 1102-2.  Designation of Eligible Indicators 
1. When the Exchange approves listing of an indicator-tracking ETF pertaining to initial listing 
application, the Exchange shall designate the indicator pertaining to such an indicator-
tracking ETF as an indicator meeting the requirements prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 
1, Item (2), d. (including cases according the provisions of Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the same 
rule, Paragraph 3, Item (1) of the same rule, Paragraph 4, Item (1) of the same rule, Paragraph 
5, Item (1) of the same rule, or Paragraph 6 of the same rule). 
2. Where an indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF is changed to a new indicator, 
and the delisting criteria is not applicable, the Exchange shall designate the indicator 
pertaining such a listed indicator-tracking ETF after the change as an indicator that meet the 
requirements specified in Rule 1104, Paragraph 1, Item (2), d. (including cases pursuant to the 
provisions of Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the same rule, Paragraph 3, Item (1) of the same rule, 
Paragraph 4, Item (1) of the same rule, Paragraph 5, Item (1) of the same rule or Paragraph 6 
of the same rule). 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
146 
Rule 1103.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to make an application for initial listing of an ETF shall submit a 
"Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange which contains 
the matters specified by the Enforcement Rules and a "Written Oath Pertaining to Initial 
Listing Application" predetermined the Exchange, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
2. Documents specified in each of the following items shall be attached, in accordance with 
the classification of ETFs referred to in said items, to the "Security Initial Listing 
Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph. 
(1) Indicator-tracking ETFs  
Documents specified by the Enforcement Rules 
(2) Domestic actively managed ETFs 
"Report on Product Characteristics of a Domestic Actively Managed ETF and 
Management System of Management Company" prescribed by the Exchange and other 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules 
3. Where a management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing 
application is made (meaning a foreign investment corporation if an initial listing 
application issue is an ETF referred to in Rule 1101, Paragraph 1, Item (2)), out of entities 
who have made an application for initial listing of an ETF, gives notification or submits 
notice concerning offering or secondary distribution of a security to the Prime Minister, etc. 
during the period after the corresponding date from a year before the end of the computation 
period or the business period immediately prior to the initial listing application day and 
before the day on which listing is made, or where it falls under any other cases specified by 
the Enforcement Rules, it shall, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, submit 
documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
4. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
applicant of an ETF to submit an in formational report or materials in addition to the 
documents prescribed in the three preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in 
listing examination. 
5. Where the Exchange approves listing of an ETF pertaining to an initial listing application, 
an entity who has made an application for initial listing of an ETF shall agree that the 
Exchange makes documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public 
inspection, out of the documents submitted pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 2 or 3, 
before and after the listing. 
6. Out of the entities which have applied for initial listing of an ETF (limited to entities that 
have applied for the initial listing of an indicator-tracking securities, etc. incorporated ETF), 
in the case where the Exchange approves the listing of the ETF pertaining to the initial 
listing application, the entity that is the management company pertaining to the initial listing 
application issue (in the case of an initial listing application issue that is an ETF referred 
to in Rule 1101, Paragraph 1, Item (2), a foreign investment corporation and a management 
company) shall, as specified by the Enforcement Rules, submit a report describing the 
management system, etc. concerning the credit standing of the counterparty (meaning a 
management system concerning the credit standing of the issuer of incorporated 
securities or the counterparty to the contract pertaining to incorporated claims, or the 
guarantor pertaining to such incorporated securities or such incorporated claims 
(limited to cases where a guarantor exists.) to ensure management continuity and 
reduce the risks of impairment of investment trust assets, etc. and other systems 
specified by the Enforcement Rules; the same shall apply hereinafter.), and agree to the 
Exchange making such report available for public inspection before and after the listing; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
147 
provided, however, that this shall not apply to cases where such report has been submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph or the provisions of Article 1107, Paragraph 4. 
 
Rule 1104.  Criteria for Listing Examination of Indicator-Tracking ETFs 
1. Listing examination of a domestic indicator-tracking ETF shall be carried out pursuant to 
the criteria referred to in each of the following items. In this case, necessary matters 
concerning examination in Item (2), c-2, d, and d-4 shall be provided by the Guidelines 
Concerning Listing Examination, etc.: 
(1) A management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing application 
is made shall be a member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General 
Incorporated Association); 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made shall satisfy the following a. 
through g. (excluding b. (c) and c-2 in cases of a security for which an initial listing 
application is made falling under the beneficiary certificate of a securities investment 
trust of other than a public or corporate investment trust (excluding issues falling under 
investment trusts referred to in each item of Article 12 of the Investment Trust Act 
Enforcement Order; the same shall apply to this item, Item (2) of the following rule, 
Rule 1107-3,, Paragraph 1, Rule 1112, Paragraph 1, Item (3) , and Rule 1112-2, Item 
(3)); excluding b.(h) and c-3. in cases of a security for which an initial listing 
application is made falling under the beneficiary certificate of an investment trust 
referred to in Article 12, Item (1) or (2) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement 
Order): 
a.  A security for which an initial listing application is made shall satisfy the following 
(a) or (b): 
(a) It shall be a beneficiary certificate of a securities investment trust other than a 
public or corporate investment trust; or 
(b) It shall be a beneficiary certificate of an investment trust referred to in Article 
12, Item (1) or (2) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order; 
b.  The basic terms and conditions of an investment trust applied to a security for which 
an initial listing application is made shall contain the contents of the following (a) 
through (h): 
(a) The fluctuation rate of the net asset value per unit of investment trust assets, 
etc. is managed such that it tracks the fluctuation rate of a specified indicator; 
(b) No investment trust agreement period is established; 
(c) A beneficiary may not request a partial cancellation of the investment trust 
agreement during the trust agreement period (excluding cases where there is a 
significant change to the general conditions, etc., the ETF is purchased based 
on requests by beneficiaries who oppose such significant change to the general 
conditions, etc., and a request is made for partial termination of the investment 
trust agreement concerning such ETF.); and 
(d) The calculation period is one (1) month or more; 
(e) The solicitation of applications for acquisition of the beneficiary 
certificates shall be conducted by means of a public offering 
(notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 2, Item (35), meaning a public 
offering prescribed in Rule 2, Paragraph 8 of the Investment Trust Act; 
the same shall apply in this rule, the following rule, Rule 1112, and 
Rule 1112-2); 
(f) The beneficiary certificates shall be listed on a financial instruments 
exchange; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
148 
(g) Where the beneficiary certificates are delisted from all financial instruments 
exchanges, procedures to terminate the investment trust shall commence on 
the day of the delisting; and 
(h) Where there is a partial cancellation of the investment trust agreement during 
the trust agreement period due to a request by a beneficiary (except cases where 
such partial cancellation may be resolved by the delivery of money pertaining 
to an additional trust; the same shall apply to Item (2), b. (f) of the following 
Rule, Rule 1112, Paragraph 1, Item (3), b.(h) , and Rule 1112-2, Item (3), b.(g)), 
the management company shall provide an instruction to the trustee to perform 
conversion of, out of securities and other assets belonging to investment trust 
assets, etc., those equivalent to interest held by such beneficiary in such 
investment trust assets, etc. of beneficiary certificates pertaining to such partial 
cancellation. 
b-2. The Basic terms and conditions of an investment trust applied to a security for 
which an initial listing application is made shall contain no description to the 
effect that investment trust agreement will be cancelled if the value of a specific 
indicator, the redemption value or the purchase value falls to or below zero (0), or 
other descriptions deemed appropriate by the Exchange; 
c. Designated participants shall satisfy the following (a) and (b): 
(a) That they are all  qualified institutional investors, and the number thereof is 
two or more; 
(b) That at least one is a trading participant of the Exchange. 
c-2. Where an initial listing application security is exchanged with securities or 
commodities belonging to the investment trust assets, etc., such securities or 
commodities are deemed to be assets readily convertible; 
c-3. Investment trust assets, etc. of a security for which an initial listing application is 
made shall be invested in rights pertaining to derivatives transactions prescribed 
in Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Act, rights pertaining to commodities investment, 
etc. trading, or instruments referred to in Article 19, Paragraph 3, Item (1) of the 
Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation, and managed;  
d. The indicator pertaining to a security for which initial listing application is made 
shall, according to the classification referred to in the following (a) and (b), satisfy 
such (a) or (b): 
(a) Indicators other than leveraged/inverse indicators 
   The indicator shall satisfy the following i. through vii. 
i. The computation method of the indicator is objective and does not lack in 
fairness. 
ii. In the case of an indicator pertaining to securities prices (limited to 
specified securities, etc. prescribed in Article 163, Paragraph 1 of the Act), 
such indicator shall be a composite representation of the price levels of a 
large number of issues. 
iii. In cases where an indicator pertains to prices of securities or other assets, 
and its component issues (meaning issues or types of such securities or other 
assets; the same shall apply hereinafter) may change, the criteria and method 
of such changes do not lack in fairness. 
iv. The indicator and its computation method are published. 
v. In the case of an indicator pertaining to prices of securities or other assets, 
its component issues (including the criteria and methods of changes in 
components in cases where they may change) are published. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
149 
vi. In the case of an indicator pertaining to prices of securities or commodities, 
it is composed of issues or types of securities or commodities which can be 
expected to be traded smoothly in order to make the fluctuation rate of the 
net asset per unit of the investment trust asset of the initial listing application 
issue correspond to fluctuation rate of such indicator (limited to cases where 
the investment is made in component securities or commodities). 
vii. In the case of a financial indicator (including commodity prices) 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 25 of the Act or a commodities index 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Commodity Derivatives Act, 
derivatives transactions prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Act or 
commodities investment, etc. transactions are expected to be smooth in 
order to make the fluctuation rate of the net asset value per unit of 
investment trust asset of the initial listing application issue correspond to 
the fluctuation rate of such indicator (limited to cases where investment is 
made in rights pertaining to such derivatives transactions or rights 
pertaining to such commodities investment, etc. transactions).  
(b) Leveraged/inverse indicators 
The indicator shall satisfy the following i. through iv. 
i. The indicator shall satisfy the matters referred to in the preceding (a) i., iv. 
and vii. 
ii. The underlying indicator satisfies the matters referred to in i. through v. in 
the preceding (a) and is not a leveraged/inverse indicator. 
iii. Where the underlying indicator is a financial indicator calculated based 
on securities prices or derivatives prices pertaining to securities (meaning a 
financial indicator prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 25 of the Act; the same 
shall apply hereinafter in this (b)), market derivatives transactions 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 21 of the Act, or foreign market 
derivatives transactions prescribed in Paragraph 23 of the same article is or 
is expected to be conducted for such financial indicator or derivatives 
transactions pertaining to such financial indicator. 
iv. Where the underlying indicator is a financial indicator calculated based 
on commodity prices or derivatives prices pertaining to commodities or the 
commodity indices prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Commodity 
Derivatives Act, its component assets or commodity derivatives prescribed 
in Paragraph 15 of the same article pertaining to such assets are or are 
expected to be traded in a commodity market prescribed in Paragraph 9 of 
the same article (including a foreign commodities market prescribed in 
Paragraph 12 of the same article) and other markets which are organized and 
operated continuously, and its prices are publicized. 
d-2. An initial listing application issue shall meet any of the following (a) to (c): 
(a) Where a specified indicator is an indicator pertaining to prices of securities or 
other assets, issues and types (meaning, if such indicator is a simple average type, 
all securities comprising such indicator, in principle) of securities and other 
assets (excluding those deemed inappropriate by the Exchange from the 
viewpoint of the public interest and the protection of investors in consideration 
of trustworthiness and other matters; the same shall apply hereinafter under 
"securities" in d-2) comprising 95% or more of the component ratio based on the 
market capitalization, out of component securities of such indicator, or securities 
issued to achieve investment performance tracking prices of each issue are 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
150 
expected to be embedded into investment trust assets, etc.; 
(b) Securities issued to achieve investment performance linked to specific indicators 
are estimated to be embedded into investment trust assets, etc.; and 
(c) A high correlation exists between the amount of net assets per unit of an initial 
listing application security and a specified indicator, and fluctuation of such 
indicator is expected to be fairly reflected in the amount of net assets per such 
unit. 
d-3. No factor which hinders smooth trading and fair price formation of an initial 
listing application security is recognized. 
d-4. In the case of an initial listing application issue which falls under an indicator-
tracking security incorporated ETF, there is the expectation of continual asset 
management after the listing, and, in addition, the management company has 
appropriately developed a management system, etc. regarding the credit standing 
of the counterparty; 
e. The following (a) and (b) are satisfied: 
(a) No false statements are made in annual securities reports, etc. containing 
financial statements, etc. for each specified period (limited to the period after the 
commencement date of the trust agreement; the same shall apply hereinafter in 
this e. and Item (2), h. of the following rule) ending in the last two years ("last" 
years are counted from the end of the base specified period (meaning the most 
recent specified period ("specified period" means that prescribed in Article 24, 
Paragraph 5 of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter) for which financial 
statements, etc. are presented in the section containing the fund's financial 
information in annual securities reports, etc. (meaning, notwithstanding the 
provision of Rule 2, Item (89), securities registration statements (including 
documents deemed to be securities registration statements or amended registration 
statements pursuant to the provisions of the Act), annual securities reports 
(including alternative written documents; the same shall apply hereinafter) and 
documents attached thereto, semiannual securities reports (including semiannual 
alternative reports; the same shall apply hereinafter) and prospectuses; the same 
shall apply hereinafter in this chapter))  in relation to the security for which the 
initial listing application has been made, or in annual securities reports, etc. 
containing interim financial statements for each specified period (notwithstanding 
the provisions of Rule 2, Item (30), the inclusion of any false statements relates to 
cases where the Prime Minister, etc. has issued any correction order (including, as 
a general rule, orders for the correction financial statements, etc. by the Prime 
Minister, etc. in accordance with Article 10 of the Act (including cases where it is 
applied mutatis mutandis in Article 24-2 and Article 24-5 of the Act), or correction 
orders prescribed by Article 23-10) or any demand for the payment of a penalty or 
fine (Article 172-2, Paragraph 1 of the Act (including cases where it is applied 
mutatis mutandis in Paragraph 4 of the same article) or orders by Article 172-4, 
Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 2), or any complaints have been made by the prime 
minister, etc. or the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission in 
accordance with Article 197 or Article 207 of the Act, or the amended contents are 
acknowledged to be material where any amended registration statement (including 
documents deemed to be securities registration statements or amended registration 
statements pursuant to the provisions of the Act), or amended report has been 
submitted; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter); and 
(b) An audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each specified period 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
151 
ending within the last two years or an interim audit report attached to interim 
financial statements, etc. for a specified period ending within the last year for the 
issue for which the initial listing application has been made contain an 
"unqualified opinion" or "qualified opinion with exceptions", an "opinion that the 
interim financial statements, etc. provide useful information", or a "qualified 
opinion with exceptions"; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the 
cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
f. An initial listing application security is handled in the book-entry transfer operation 
by a designated book-entry transfer institution or is expected to be handled in such 
operation by the time of listing; and 
g. The listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the public interest or 
the protection of investors. 
(3) A management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing application 
is made assures the matters referred to in the following a. through c. in writing: 
a. A management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing 
application is made is in a situation to be able to appropriately understand 
information of a trustee for a security for which an initial listing application is 
made; 
b. A management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing 
application is made discloses information of a trustee for a security for which an 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1107; and 
c. A trustee has agreed that a management company pertaining to a security for which 
an initial listing application is made will disclose information of such trustee 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1107. 
2.  Listing examination of a foreign ETF shall be conducted pursuant to the criteria referred to 
in each of the following items (excluding Item (7) in cases of a foreign ETF similar to a 
beneficiary certificate of an investment trust referred to in Article 12, Item (1) or Item (2) 
of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order): 
(1) Item (2), c-2, d, d-2, d-4, e, g, and Item (3) of the preceding paragraph (excluding 
Item (2), c-2 of the preceding paragraph in cases of a foreign ETF similar to a 
beneficiary certificate of a securities investment trust (excluding those falling under 
an investment trust referred to in each item of Article 12 of the Investment Trust Act 
Enforcement Order) other than a public or corporate bond investment trust; excluding 
Item (3) of the same paragraph in cases of foreign ETFs falling under foreign 
investment securities) of the preceding paragraph are satisfied. In this case, as for 
foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities, the term "the amount of net 
assets per unit of the investment trust assets of an initial listing application security" 
in Item (2), d. of the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be replaced with "the 
amount of net assets per unit pertaining to such foreign ETFs (meaning the amount 
obtained by dividing the amount of investment trust assets by the quantity of such 
foreign ETFs, in case where such foreign ETFs are foreign investment securities 
similar to investment corporate bonds)". The terms "the specified period (the 
specified period as prescribed in Article 24, Paragraph 5 of the Act; the same shall 
apply hereinafter)" and "the specified period" in Item (2), e. of the same paragraph 
shall be deemed to be replaced with "the business period", the term "the 
commencement date of the trust agreement period" with "the establishment date of 
the foreign investment corporation", respectively.; 
(2) Basic terms and conditions of a trust or documents similar thereto or terms and 
conditions or documents similar thereto applied to an issue for which an initial listing 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
152 
application is made shall contain the descriptions of the following a. through c. 
(excluding b. in cases of foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities) 
(for descriptions referred to in a., including descriptions similar thereto): 
a. The fluctuation rate of the net asset value per unit of investment trust assets, etc. is 
managed to track the fluctuation rate of a specified indicator; 
b. No trust agreement period is established; provided, however, that where a trust 
agreement period is set forth in accordance with the laws and regulations of the 
country where the foreign ETF was created (limited to the period prescribed by 
Article 2-3, Paragraph 2 of the Enforcement Order of the Special Taxation 
Measures Act (Ministry of Finance Order No. 15 of 1957), such trust agreement 
period; and 
c. The computation period or the business period is one (1) month or more; 
(2)-2 Basic terms and conditions of a trust or documents similar thereto, or terms and 
conditions or documents similar thereto applied to an issues for which an initial 
listing application is made shall contains no descriptions to the effect that cancellation 
of a trust agreement or closure of a fund will be made subject to fluctuation in the 
value of a specific indicator or the base value (excluding a description to the effect 
that cancellation of a trust agreement or closure of a fund will be made if the value 
of a specific indicator or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or other descriptions 
deemed appropriate by the Exchange).  
(3) It shall be required that a security for which an initial listing application is subject to 
handling of the book-entry transfer operation for foreign stocks, etc. of the designated 
book-entry transfer institution, or is expected to be handled by the time of listing; 
(4) It shall be required that a security for which an initial listing application is made is 
listed or continuously traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc., or is 
expected to be so; 
(5) It shall be required that laws similar to the Investment Trust Act have been developed 
for the issuance of an issue for which an initial listing application is made, and 
administrative agencies are supervising entity prescribed in each item of Rule 1101, 
Paragraph 1 pertaining to such issue; 
(6) The following a. and b. shall be met: 
a. A trading participant designated by the Exchange as prescribed in Rule 68 of the 
Business Regulations is expected to be designated by the time of listing of the initial 
listing application issue with a view to ensure circulation of foreign ETFs in the 
Exchange market. 
b. No factor which hinders smooth trading and fair price formation of an issue for which 
the initial listing application is made is recognized; and 
(7) Investment trust assets, etc. of a security for which an initial listing application is 
made shall be invested in rights pertaining to derivatives transactions prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Act, rights pertaining to commodities investment, etc. 
transactions, monetary claims referred to in Article 3, Item (7) of the Investment 
Trust Act Enforcement Regulation, or instruments referred to in Article 19, 
Paragraph 3, Item (1) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order and managed. 
3. Listing examination of a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate shall be conducted 
pursuant to the criteria referred to in each of the following items. Details of each of such 
items in this case shall be prescribed by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Paragraph 1, Item (2), d, d-2, d-4, e, and g, Item (3) of the same paragraph, and Item (2), 
Item (2)-2 and Items (4) through (6) of the preceding paragraph (excluding Paragraph 1, 
Item (3) in cases where a foreign ETF whose entrusted security pertaining to the initial 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
153 
listing application issue falls under a foreign investment security) are met. In this case, 
the term "initial listing application issue" in Paragraph 1, Item (2), d, d-2, and e and 
Items (2), (2)-2 and (4) of the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be replaced with 
"foreign ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing application 
security", the term "foreign ETF" in Item (2), b. of the preceding paragraph with "a 
foreign ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing application 
issue", the term "issuance of an initial listing application issue" in Item (5) of the 
preceding paragraph with "issuance of a foreign ETF which is an entrusted security 
pertaining to an initial listing application issue", and the term "a foreign ETF" with "a 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate", respectively. In addition, where a foreign ETF 
which is an entrusted security pertaining to an issue for which an initial listing 
application is made falls under foreign investment securities, the term "the amount of 
net assets per unit of the investment trust assets of an issue for which an initial listing 
application is made" in Paragraph 1, Item (2), d. of shall be deemed to be replaced with 
"the amount of net assets per unit pertaining to such foreign ETF (meaning the amount 
obtained by dividing the amount of investment trust assets by the quantity of such 
foreign ETFs, in the case where such foreign ETFs are foreign investment securities 
similar to investment corporate bonds)", the terms "the specified period (the specified 
period as prescribed in Article 24, Paragraph 5 of the Act; the same shall apply 
hereinafter)" and "the specified period" in Item (2), e. of the same paragraph with "the 
business period", the term "the commencement date of the trust agreement period" with 
"the establishment date of the foreign investment corporation", and the term "a foreign 
ETF falling under foreign investment securities" in Item (2) of the preceding paragraph 
with "cases where a foreign ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to an issue 
for which an initial listing application is made falls under foreign investment securities", 
respectively;   
(2) It shall be required that a security for which an initial listing application is subject to the 
book-entry transfer operation conducted by the designated book-entry transfer 
institution, or is expected to be handled in said operation by the time of listing; and 
(3) It shall be required that the deposit agreement, etc. and any other agreements for a 
security for which an initial listing application is made is entered into pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
4. Listing examination of a domestic spot commodity ETF shall be made pursuant to the criteria 
referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) Paragraph 1, Item (1), Item (2), c., c-2, d, d-3, e and g of the same paragraph, as well as 
Item (3) of the same paragraph (excluding cases where the management company is the 
trustee) are satisfied. In this case, the following terms shall be deemed to be replaced as 
follows: 
The term "A management company … is a member of the Investment Trusts Association, 
Japan (General Incorporated Association)" in Paragraph 1, Item (1) with "A 
management company … is a member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan 
(General Incorporated Association) (excluding cases where the management company 
is a registered financial institution)"; 
The term "investment trust assets, etc." in Item (2), c-2 of the same paragraph with "trust 
assets"; and 
The term "investment trust asset" in Item (2), d. of the same paragraph with "trust asset". 
(1)-2 The trustor shall satisfy the following a. and b. (limited to cases where the 
management company is the trustee): 
a. It shall be a listed company or subsidiary of such company; and 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
154 
b. It shall be a member or trading participant of a commodities market or foreign 
commodities market (limited to a commodities market or foreign commodities market 
that is able to conduct trading in which contract is make with regard to delivery and 
receipt of such product and the consideration; the same shall apply hereinafter) on 
which a product which is the same as the trust assets is listed, or a party equivalent to 
such member of trading participant as specified in the Enforcement Rules (limited to 
parties which perform trading, intermediation, brokerage or agency of trading, 
production, processing or use of such products as business; the same shall apply 
hereinafter). 
  (1)-3 Where the Exchange deems it necessary and verifies the contribution status, etc. of 
commodities, the trustor shall assure in writing to appropriately report matters for 
verification immediately (limited to cases where the management company is the  
trustee). 
  (2) Basic terms and conditions of a trust applied to an initial listing application security shall 
contain information as referred to in the following a. through e.: 
     a. The structure of tracking prices of a specific commodity; 
     b. The fact that the period of a trust agreement is not set up; 
     c. The fact that beneficiaries may not request partial cancellation of a trust agreement 
during the period of a trust agreement (excluding cases of an important change in the 
trust, etc., where ETFs are purchased based on requests by beneficiaries opposing 
such important change in the trust, etc. and a request is made for partial cancellation 
of the trust agreement of such ETF); 
     d. A period specified as a computation period (excluding a computation period specified 
by the Enforcement Rules) is one (1) month or more, but within one (1) year; 
d-2. The solicitation of applications for acquisition of the beneficiary 
certificates shall be conducted by means of a public offering; 
d-3. The beneficiary certificates shall be listed on a financial instruments 
exchange; 
d-4. Where the beneficiary certificates are delisted from all financial instruments 
exchanges, procedures to terminate the trust shall begin on the day of the delisting; 
d-5. The conditions for commodities pertaining to trust assets; 
d-6. For the commodity that the trustor contributes, such trustor guarantees to 
satisfy the condition provided in the preceding d-5; and 
     e. Other matters specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(2)-2 Basic terms and conditions of a trust applied to an initial listing application security 
shall contain no description to the effect that a trust agreement will be cancelled subject 
to fluctuation in the value of a specific indicator or the base value (excluding 
descriptions to the effect that a trust agreement will be cancelled if the value of a 
specific indicator or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or other descriptions 
deemed appropriate by the Exchange).  
(3) A trust contract pertaining to an initial listing application security shall be entered into 
between a single management company and a single trustee (excluding cases where the 
management company is the trustee); 
(4) A management company has assured that ninety-five (95) % or more of the total of the 
trust assets of an initial listing application security shall be comprised of specified 
commodities;  
(5) An initial listing application security shall not be a limited liability trust prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 12 of the Trust Act; 
(6) A management company has assured that it shall carry out instruction of management 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
155 
or disposition of a commodity or other asset contributed by an entity who owns rights 
represented in a beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing application security 
in an appropriate manner without failing in the protection of investors or harming fair 
transactions, or losing the trust in transactions of the commodity pertaining to such 
initial listing application security; and 
(7) An initial listing application security is handled in the book-entry transfer operation 
conducted by a designated book-entry transfer institution or is expected to be handled 
in said operation by the time of listing. 
5. Examinations of a foreign spot commodity ETF shall be made pursuant to the criteria 
referred to in each of the following items: 
(1) Paragraph1, Item (2), c-2, d, e and g, Item (3) of the same paragraph, Paragraph 2, Items 
(3), (4), and (6), and Item (4) of the preceding paragraph are satisfied. In this case, the 
term "investment trust assets, etc." in Paragraph 1, Item (2), c-2 shall be deemed to be 
replaced with "trust assets"; the term "investment trust assets" in Item (2), d. of the same 
paragraph with "trust assets"; and the term "foreign ETF" in Item (6) of Paragraph 2 
with "foreign spot commodity ETF"; 
(2) Basic terms and conditions of a trust applied to an initial listing application security 
contains information as referred to in the following a. through d.: 
a. The structure of tracking prices of a specified commodity; 
     b. The fact that no period of a trust agreement is set up; provided, however, that if a trust 
contract period (limited to a period prescribed in Article 2-3, Paragraph 2 of the 
Enforcement Regulations of the Special Taxation Measures Act) is set forth, such trust 
contract period;  
     c. A period specified as a computation period (excluding a computation period specified 
by the Enforcement Rules) is one (1) month or more, but within one (1) year; and 
 
   d. Other matters specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
  (2)-2 Basic terms and conditions of a trust applied to an initial listing application security 
shall contain no description to the effect that a trust agreement will be cancelled subject 
to fluctuation in the value of a specific indicator or the base value (excluding 
descriptions to the effect that a trust agreement will be cancelled if the value of a 
specific indicator or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or other descriptions 
deemed appropriate by the Exchange).  
 (3) The following a. or b. is satisfied: 
      a. A management company has assured that it shall carry out instruction of 
management or disposition of a commodity or any other assets contributed by an 
entity who holds rights represented on a beneficiary certificate pertaining to an 
initial listing application security in an appropriate manner without failing in the 
protection of investors, harming fair transactions, or losing the trust in transactions 
of the commodity pertaining to such initial listing application security; and  
      b. In laws and regulations concerning an issuance of an initial listing application 
security or basic terms and conditions of a trust applied to an initial listing application 
security, appropriate measures have been taken for making appropriate instructions 
of management or disposition of a commodity or any other assets contributed by an 
entity who holds rights represented in a beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial 
listing application security without failing in the protection of investors, harming fair 
transactions or losing the trust in transactions of the commodity pertaining to such 
initial listing application security; 
(4) Laws concerning the issuance of an initial listing application security have been 
developed, and an administrative agency supervising the management company and the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
156 
trustee of a trust pertaining to such initial listing application security exists. 
6. Listing examination of a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate shall be 
made in accordance with the criteria referred to in Paragraph 1, Item (2), d., e., and g., Item 
(3) of the same paragraph, Paragraph 2, Items (4) and (6), Paragraph 3, Items (2) and (3), 
Paragraph 4, Item (4), and Items (2) through (4) of the preceding paragraph. In this case, 
the term "initial listing application security" in Paragraph 1, Item (2), d. and e., Paragraph 
2, Item (4), Paragraph 4, Item (4), and Items (2), (2)-2 and (3) of the preceding paragraph 
shall be deemed to be replaced with "foreign spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted 
security pertaining to an initial listing application security"; the term "foreign ETF" in 
Paragraph 2, Item (6) with "foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate"; the 
term "foreign spot commodity ETF" in Item (2) of the preceding paragraph with "foreign 
spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing 
application security"; and the term "issuance of an initial listing application security" in 
Item (4) of the preceding paragraph with "issuance of a foreign spot commodity ETF which 
is an entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing application security"; respectively. 
 
Rule 1104-2.  Criteria for Listing Examination of Domestic Actively Managed ETFs 
1. Listing examination of a domestic actively managed ETF shall be carried out pursuant to 
the criteria referred to in each of the following items. In this case, necessary matters 
concerning examination in Item (2), g., and Items (4) and (5) shall be prescribed by the 
Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc.: 
(1) The management company pertaining to the security for which an initial listing 
application is made is a member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General 
Incorporated Association); 
(2) The security for which an initial listing application is made shall satisfy the following 
a. through j.: 
      a. It is a beneficiary certificate of a securities investment trust other than a public or 
corporate investment trust; 
      b. The following statements (a) through (g) are included in the investment trust's basic 
terms and conditions: 
(a) That the period of the investment trust agreement is not fixed; 
(b) That the period designated as the computation period is one (1) month or more; 
(c) That the solicitation of applications for acquisition of the beneficiary certificate 
shall be conducted by public offering; 
(d) That the beneficiary certificate shall be listed on a financial instruments 
exchange; 
(e) That if the beneficiary certificate is delisted from all financial instruments 
exchanges, procedures to terminate the investment trust shall commence on the 
day of delisting; 
(f) That, when a beneficiary requests a partial cancellation of the investment trust 
agreement during the trust agreement period, the management company shall 
instruct the trustee to convert the securities and other assets within the investment 
trust assets that are equivalent to the interest held by said beneficiary in the 
investment trust assets of the beneficiary certificate pertaining to said partial 
cancellation; 
(g)Matters referred to in the following (i) or (ii): 
i. That investment restrictions as defined in the provisions of Article 17-2 
of the Rules on Management of Investment Trusts, etc. set by the 
Investment Trusts Association, Japan have been established; or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
157 
ii. That investment restrictions as defined in the provisions of Article 17-
3, Paragraph 1, Item (3) of the Rules on Management of Investment 
Trusts, etc. set by the Investment Trusts Association, Japan have been 
established and the beneficial investment ratio in any particular single 
issue and investment security (in beneficiary certificates of investment 
trusts and investment corporations, the ratio of the total amount 
obtained by adding the value of any particular security belonging to the 
trust assets and the value of the same security invested in through other 
beneficiary 
certificates 
of 
investment 
trusts 
and 
investment 
corporations, to the total NAV of the trust assets; the same shall apply 
hereinafter) will not exceed 20% of the total NAV of the trust assets. 
      b-2. That the security for which an initial listing application is made does not fall under 
any of the following (a) through (d):  
(a) Beneficiary certificates of investment trusts that are managed such that the 
fluctuation rate of NAV per unit tracks the fluctuation rate of a specific indicator 
multiplied by a predetermined factor; 
(b) Beneficiary certificates of complex investment trusts similar to OTC derivative 
transactions as defined in Article 2 of the Rules on Complex Investment Trusts 
Similar to Over-the-Counter Derivatives Transactions established by the 
Investment Trusts Association, Japan; 
(c) Beneficiary certificates of currency selection-type investment trusts and similar 
as defined in Article 3, Paragraph 2 of the Rules for Preparation of Delivery 
Prospectus established by the Investment Trusts Association, Japan; or 
(d) Other beneficiary certificates of investment trusts that TSE deems inappropriate 
from the perspectives of risks and complexity related to fluctuations in the base 
value. 
      c. The following statements (a) and (b) are not included in the investment trust's basic 
terms and conditions: 
(a) That the fluctuation rate of the NAV per unit of investment trust assets, etc. is 
managed to track the fluctuation rate of a specific indicator; and 
(b) That the investment trust agreement is subject to cancellation based on base price 
fluctuations (excluding statements that the investment trust agreement is subject 
to cancellation when the base price falls to or below zero or other statements that 
the Exchange deems appropriate); 
      d. Designated participants shall satisfy the following (a) and (b): 
(a) That they are all qualified institutional investors, and the number thereof is two 
or more; and 
(b) That at least one is a trading participant of the Exchange. 
e. The investment trust assets will be invested in (i) rights connected to derivative 
transactions as prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Act, (ii) rights pertaining 
to transactions related to commodities investment, etc., or (iii) the items listed in 
Article 19, Paragraph 3, Item 1 of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation 
(excluding the items listed in (a) to (c) below): 
(a) Beneficiary certificates (meaning beneficiary certificates, investment securities, 
and foreign investment securities collectively, and including securities trust 
beneficiary certificates, as prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement 
Order, for which these are the entrusted securities as well as  securities referred 
to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item 17 of the Act that have the characteristics of 
beneficiary certificates of beneficiary certificate-issuing trusts as prescribed in 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
158 
Item 14 of the same paragraph; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) 
of investment trusts and investment corporations (meaning investment trusts, 
foreign investment trusts, investment corporations, and foreign investment 
corporations collectively; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) that 
are managed so that the fluctuation rate in NAV per unit of investment trust assets, 
etc. tracks the fluctuation rate of a leveraged or inverse indicator; 
(b) Beneficiary certificates of investment trusts and investment corporations listed 
in b-2, (a) through (d) or other similar beneficiary certificates of investment 
trusts and investment corporations; or 
(c) Securities other than beneficiary certificates of investment trusts and investment 
corporations which incorporate rights pertaining to derivative transactions as 
prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 20 of the Act or rights pertaining to 
transactions related to commodities investment, etc., which are issued for the 
purpose of investment results other than being linked to a specific indicator 
(excluding leveraged and inverse indicators); 
      f. No factor which hinders smooth trading and fair price formation of the security is 
recognized. 
      g. If it is an indicator-tracking security incorporated ETF, it can be expected to be 
managed continuously after listing, and the management company has appropriately 
developed a management system and other structures regarding the credit standing 
of the counterparty; 
      h. The following (a) and (b) are satisfied: 
(a) No false statement has been made in the annual securities reports, etc. containing 
financial statements, etc. for each specified period or interim financial statements, 
etc. pertaining to the security for each specified period which ended in the last 
two years; and 
(b) Audit reports attached to financial statements, etc. for each specified period 
which ended in the last two years and the interim audit report attached to interim 
financial statements, etc. for the specified period which ended in the last year 
contained "unqualified opinions" or "qualified opinions with exceptions", or 
"opinions that the interim financial statements, etc. provide useful information" 
or "qualified opinions with exceptions"; provided, however, that the same shall 
not apply to cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
      i. The security is handled for book-entry transfer operations by a designated book-entry 
transfer institution or is expected to be such by the time of listing; and 
      j. The listing is not deemed inappropriate for any other reason from the viewpoint of 
the public interest or the protection of investors; 
(3) The portfolio information prescribed in Rule 1107-4, Paragraph 1, Item (2) is expected 
to be provided to investors on an ongoing basis in accordance with the provisions of the 
same paragraph; 
(4) The management company is in a position to suitably disclose information regarding 
domestic actively managed ETFs; 
(5) The management company is in a position to implement, among other things, sound 
management of investment trust assets; 
(6) The management company gives assurance of the matters listed in the following a. 
through c. in writing: 
      a. That it is in a position to appropriately keep track of information regarding the trustee 
of the security; 
      b. That it will disclose information regarding the trustee of the security pursuant to the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
159 
provisions of Rule 1107-2; and 
      c. The trustee of the security has agreed that the management company can disclose 
information regarding said trustee in accordance with the provisions of Rule 1107-
2. 
 
 
Rule 1105.  Alteration Listing Application 
1. Where the management company and the trustee pertaining to a listed ETF (meaning the 
foreign investment corporation and the management company in cases of foreign ETFs 
falling under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates 
whose entrusted securities are said foreign ETFs) intend to alter the name of listed ETF, the 
management company or the trustee (meaning a foreign investment corporation or a 
management company in cases of foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities 
or foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are said foreign 
ETFs) shall make an application for such an alteration by submitting a "Security Alteration 
Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange; provided, however, that in the 
cases where mattes to be described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" 
are included in the disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1107 or 
Rule 1107-2, or documents submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
1108 or Rule 1108-2, the Exchange shall deem that the issuer makes an application for such 
an alteration by said disclosure or submission.. 
 
2. Where the Exchange makes alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on the date of 
such alteration listing. 
 
 
Rule 1106.  Technical Listing 
1. Where a listed domestic ETF conducts a consolidation (limited to cases where two or more 
listed domestic ETFs conduct a consolidation pursuant to the provisions of Article 16, Item 
(2) of the Investment Trust Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule) and is delisted, 
and an initial application of a domestic ETF after the consolidation is made without delay, 
listing examination on such application is conducted in accordance with the criteria referred 
to each item of Rule 1104, Paragraph 1 when said domestic ETF is a domestic indicator-
tracking ETF, and the criteria referred to each item of Rule 1104-2 when said domestic ETF 
is a domestic actively managed ETF. 
2. A listing date of a domestic ETF listed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph 
shall be the day on which the consolidation will become effective; provided, however, that 
this shall not apply in cases where it is impossible or difficult to list on such day because of 
the timing of initial listing application, etc. 
 
Rule 1107.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Indicator-Tracking ETFs 
1. A management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF (meaning the foreign 
investment corporation and the management company in cases of foreign ETFs falling 
under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose 
entrusted securities are said foreign ETFs) shall carry out timely disclosure of information 
concerning such listed indicator-tracking ETF. 
2. Timely disclosure of information prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out 
pursuant to each of the following items. Handling of each such item in this case shall be 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
160 
provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where any of the following a. through j. is applied (excluding matters which fall under 
those which the Exchange deems as matters whose effect on investors’ investment 
decisions is of minor significance, such as cases the criteria specified by the Enforcement 
Rules, in the case of matters referred to in a. and b.), a management company pertaining 
to a listed indicator-tracking ETF (excluding foreign ETFs falling under foreign 
investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted 
securities are said foreign ETFs) shall disclose details thereof immediately pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
a. Where a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF has 
decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through (t) 
(excluding (r) through (s) in cases of a domestic indicator-tracking ETF; excluding 
(i), (n) through (o)-2, (q), and (r)-2 through (r)-4 in cases of a foreign ETF and a 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate; excluding (q) and (s) in cases of a 
domestic spot commodity ETF (except issues whose management company is the 
trustee); excluding (q), (r)-3, and (s) in cases of a domestic spot commodity ETF 
(limited to issues whose management company is the trustee); and excluding (i), 
(n) through (o)-2, (q), (r)-3, and (r)-4 in cases of a foreign spot commodity ETF 
and a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate): 
(a) Secondary distribution; 
(a)-2 Split or reverse split of beneficiary certificates pertaining to the listed 
indicator-tracking ETF; 
(b) Borrowing of funds necessary for an investment trust, foreign investment trust, 
or trust; 
(c) Change to the basic terms and conditions of an investment trust or basic terms 
and conditions of a trust, or similar documents thereto, or cancellation of an 
investment trust agreement or trust agreement; 
(c)-2 Change in name of a listed indicator-tracking ETF; 
(c)-3 Change of a specific indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
to a new indicator; 
(d) Application for delisting of an indicator-tracking ETF from a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan or foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
(e) Merger of said management company; 
(f) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings of said management 
company; 
(g) Dissolution of said management company (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
(h) Discontinuation of financial instruments business, registered financial 
institution business, or any similar business of said management company; 
(i) Ceasing to be an entity which carries out investment management business by 
completing an alteration registration specified in Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the 
Act; 
(j) Company split of said management company (limited to cases where the 
whole business is inherited);  
(k) Transfer of the whole business of said management company; 
(l) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made by said asset 
management company to the Prime Minister, etc. in accordance with the Act 
or foreign laws and regulations; 
(m) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification 
of financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
161 
annual securities reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(n) Designation of any entity other than a qualified institutional investor as a 
designated participant, or exclusion of any entity other than a qualified 
institutional investor from being a designated participant; 
(o) Decrease in the number of designated participants to less than two or an 
increase to more than two;  
(o)-2 Decrease in the number of designated participants who are trading 
participants of the Exchange to zero or an increase to one or more; 
(p) A decision regarding temporary suspension of additional trusts, partial 
cancellation or exchange, or purchase of listed indicator-tracking ETFs; 
(q) A decision that said issue will not be subject to book-entry transfer operations 
conducted by a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(r) A decision that said issue will not be subject to custody and book-entry transfer 
operations for listed foreign stocks, etc. or book-entry transfer operations of a 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(r)-2 Split of a trust; 
(r)-3 That a trust agreement pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF ceases to 
be an agreement as entered into by and between a single management company 
and a single trustee of a trust; 
(r)-4 That a listed indicator-tracking ETF will become a limited liability trust; 
(s) That business of said management company as a management company will 
cease due to expiry, cancellation, or changes of an authorization, approval, or 
registration, etc. necessary for business as a management company made by 
the Prime Minister, etc.; or 
(t) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (s), important 
matters related to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-
tracking ETF or its management company which have a significant impact on 
investors’ investment decisions;  
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (h) has occurred to 
a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF (excluding 
(g)-3 through (g)-5 in cases of a domestic indicator-tracking ETF; excluding (g)-
3 and (g)-4 in cases of a domestic spot commodity ETF (excluding issues whose 
management company is the trustee); and excluding (f) through (g)-5 in cases of, 
a foreign ETF, a foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a foreign spot 
commodity ETF, and a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate): 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 or Article 
51-2 of the Act or similar disciplinary actions; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to 
in Rule 1112, Paragraph 1, Item (1)); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) and the preceding (b), authorization, 
approval or disciplinary actions by the Prime Minister, etc. in accordance with 
the Act or foreign laws and regulations; 
(d) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification 
of financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in 
annual securities reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases 
where the body which decides business execution has decided to change 
certified public accountants, etc. (including where it has decided not to carry 
out matters pertaining to such decision) and details have been disclosed 
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding a.); 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
162 
(e) An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an 
attached audit report or an interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 
1 of the Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more 
certified public accountants or an audit firm is not expected to be submitted to 
the Prime Minister, etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 
or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act or has not been submitted within said 
period (except cases where disclosure has been made that said report is 
unlikely to be submitted within said period), was submitted after such 
disclosure had been made, or approval has been received from the Prime 
Minister, etc. for the extension of said period; 
(f) Designation of any entity other than a qualified institutional investor as a 
designated participant, or exclusion of any entity other than a qualified 
institutional investor from being a designated participant; 
(g) Change in the number of designated participants to less than two; 
(g)-2 Decrease in the number of designated participants who are trading 
participants of the Exchange to zero; 
(g)-3 That the trustor ceases to be a listed company or a subsidiary of such 
company; 
(g)-4 That the trustor ceases to be a member or trading participant of a 
commodities market or foreign commodities market or such equivalent 
party as specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(g)-5 A commodity that does not satisfy the conditions prescribed in the 
basic terms and conditions of a trust for commodities pertaining to trust 
assets is trusted; or 
(h) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (g)-5, important 
facts related to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking 
ETF or its management company which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions; 
c.  Where a trustee pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF has decided to carry 
out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) or (b) (including cases where 
it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision): 
(a) Application for delisting of an indicator-tracking ETF to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan or a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.; or 
(b) Other than the matter referred to in the preceding (a), important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or said 
trustee which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
d.  Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) or (b) has occurred to a 
trustee pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF: 
(a) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to 
in Rule 1112, Paragraph 1, Item (2)); 
(b) Other than the fact referred to in the preceding (a), important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or said 
trustee which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
       e.  Where the details of the financial results of a fund for a specified period (meaning 
a specified period prescribed in Article 24, Paragraph 5 of the Act, the same shall 
apply hereinafter) or an interim specified period (meaning the six months after the 
commencement date of a specified period if said specified period exceeds six 
months) pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF are decided; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
163 
e-2. With regard to a listed indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF, where any 
of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (i) has occurred to the 
counterparty (where said counterparty is the guarantor, when a fact referred to in 
the following (a) through (g) or (i) occurs at said guarantor) and the management 
company gains knowledge of such fact having occurred to the counterparty: 
(a) A change in the credit rating or change in the rating pertaining to the 
incorporated securities (limited to cases of acquisition); 
(b) Notes on matters relating to the going concern assumption are stated in 
financial statements, etc., interim financial statements, etc. or quarterly 
financial statements, etc.; 
(c) Amount of net assets falls to or below zero (0) or a situation equivalent to this 
at the end of the business year or consolidated accounting year, or interim 
accounting period or interim consolidated accounting period (in the case of a 
counterparty that submits quarterly financial statements or quarterly 
consolidated financial statements, quarterly accounting period or quarterly 
consolidated accounting period); 
(d) Concerning an audit report attached to financial statements, etc., an interim 
audit report or interim review report attached to interim financial statements, 
etc., or an interim review report attached to quarterly financial statements, etc., 
a certified public accountant, etc. expresses an "adverse opinion" or  
"disclaimer of opinion" in an audit report, an "opinion that interim financial 
statements, etc. do not provide useful information" or "disclaimer of opinion" 
in an interim audit report, or an "adverse conclusion" or "disclaimer of 
conclusion" in an interim review report;  
(e) Suspension of business activities, dissolution or a situation equivalent to these; 
(f) A bill, etc. issued is dishonored and its bank transactions are suspended or their 
suspension becomes certain; 
(g) Cases where it becomes necessary to enter bankruptcy proceedings, 
rehabilitation proceedings, or reorganization proceedings based on the 
provisions of laws or where falling under a situation equivalent to these; 
(h) Acceleration of obligations pertaining to incorporated securities or 
incorporated claims 
(i) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (h), material 
facts related to the financial situation of the counterparty 
f.  Where a fact that has a material impact on the circulation of listed indicator-
tracking ETFs has arisen in a region outside Japan with respect to a listed foreign 
ETF, a foreign ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to a listed foreign 
ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a listed foreign spot commodity ETF, or a listed 
foreign spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted security pertaining to a listed 
foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate;  
g. Where a management company or a trustee pertaining to a listed foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificate or a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate has decided (i) an alteration or termination of the deposit agreement, etc. 
prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 3, Item (3) or any other contract, or (ii) other 
matters that materially affect rights, et. of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate or a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, or 
where a fact that materially affect such rights, etc. has arisen;   
h.  Where a management company pertaining to a listed domestic indicator-tracking 
ETF has carried out transactions referred to in each item of Article 13, Paragraph 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
164 
1 of the Investment Trust Act (limited to cases where the same article requires the 
delivery of documents to a beneficiary of an investment trust);  
i.  Where the following (a) or (b) is applicable or any other material deviation that has 
an impact on investment decisions has occurred between the NAV per unit of a 
listed indicator-tracking ETF and the market price or the specific indicator, or any 
of these are likely to become applicable; 
(a) When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
and the closing price of the market price (meaning the absolute value of the value 
obtained by dividing the closing price in the trading session by the NAV per unit 
of a listed indicator-tracking ETF and subtracting 1, expressed as a percentage; 
the same shall apply in this item) is 20% or more; 
(b) When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
and the closing price of the market price is 5% or more for seven consecutive 
business days; or 
j. Where an entity calculating a specific indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-
tracking ETF discloses that the entity has decided to cease calculating such an 
indicator.  
(2) The investment trust corporation and the management company pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF (limited to a foreign ETF falling under foreign investment 
securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are 
said foreign ETFs) shall disclose the details immediately pursuant to the provisions of 
the Enforcement Rules, if they fall under any of the following a through i (excluding 
those which fall under the criteria prescribed in the Enforcement Rules as matters with 
minor influence over an investor’s decision, in the case of matters referred to in a and 
c). 
a.  Where a foreign investment corporation pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through 
(m) (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision but excluding (a) and (b) in cases where the listed indicator-tracking ETF is 
a foreign investment security similar to an investment corporate bond): 
(a) Secondary distribution of investment units or beneficiary rights pertaining to the 
listed indicator-tracking ETF;  
(b) Split or reverse split of investment units or beneficiary rights pertaining to the listed 
indicator-tracking ETF; 
(c) Offering of foreign investment securities similar to investment corporation bonds 
or borrowing of funds; 
(d) Merger; 
(e) Change to the certificate of incorporation or any document similar thereto, or 
dissolution; 
(e)-2 Change in name of the listed indicator-tracking ETF; 
(e)-3 Change of a specific indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF to a 
new indicator; 
(f) Application for delisting of said ETF to a domestic financial instruments exchange 
or a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
(g) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation 
proceedings; 
(h) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made to the Prime 
Minister, etc. in accordance with the Act or foreign laws and regulations; 
(i) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
165 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(j) A decision regarding temporary suspension of additional issuance or purchase of a 
listed indicator-tracking ETF; 
(k) A decision that said issue will not be subject to custody and book-entry transfer 
operations of foreign stocks, etc. or book-entry transfer operations conducted by a 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(l) That business as a foreign investment corporation will cease due to expiry, 
cancellation, or changes pursuant to the Act or foreign laws and regulations of an 
authorization, approval, or registration, etc. necessary for business as a foreign 
investment corporation; 
(m) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (l), important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or 
its foreign investment corporation which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions; 
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (e) occurs to a foreign 
investment corporation pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF. 
(a) Authorization, approval or disciplinary action by the Prime Minister, etc. in 
accordance with the Act or foreign laws and regulations; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1112, Paragraph 3, Item (1) or Item (2)) 
(c) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body 
which decides business execution has decided to change certified public 
accountants, etc. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters 
pertaining to said decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding a.) 
(d) An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached 
audit report or interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet 
Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm is not expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister, 
etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1, or Article 24-5, 
Paragraph 1 of the Act or has not been submitted within said period (except cases 
where disclosure has been made that said report is unlikely to be submitted within 
said period), was submitted after such disclosure had been made, or approval has 
been received from the Prime Minister, etc. for the extension of said period; 
(e) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (d), important facts 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or 
its foreign investment corporation and which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions;  
c. Where a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF has 
decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through (i) 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision).  
(a) Application for delisting of an indicator-tracking ETF to a domestic financial 
instruments exchange or a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
(b) Merger of said management company; 
(c) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings of said management 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
166 
company; 
(d) Dissolution of said management company (excluding dissolutions by merger) 
(e) Company split of said management company (limited to cases where the whole 
business is inherited); 
(f) Transfer of the whole business of said management company; 
(g) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made to the Prime 
Minister, etc. in accordance with the Act or foreign laws and regulations; 
(h) That business as a management company will cease due to expiry, cancellation, or 
changes pursuant to the Act or foreign laws and regulations of an authorization, 
approval, or registration, etc. necessary for business as a management company; 
(i) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (h), important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or 
its management company which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; 
d. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (c) has occurred to a 
management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF: 
(a) Authorization, approval or disciplinary actions by the Prime Minister, etc. in 
accordance with the Act or foreign laws and regulations; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1112, Paragraph 3, Item (3)); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) and (b), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF or its 
management company which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; 
e. Where details of the financial results of funds for a business period or an interim 
business period of a foreign investment corporation pertaining to a listed indicator-
tracking ETF are fixed; 
e-2 With regard to a listed indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF, where any of the 
facts referred to in (a) through (i) in e-2. of the preceding item has occurred to the 
counterparty and the management company gains knowledge of such fact having 
occurred to the counterparty; 
f. Where any fact which will have a material effect on trading of a listed indicator-
tracking ETF occurs in a region other than Japan with respect to a listed foreign ETF 
or a foreign ETF which is a trusted security pertaining to listed foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates; 
g. A foreign investment corporation or a management company pertaining to a listed 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates has decided a change or termination of a 
deposit agreement, etc. as prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 3, Item (3) or any other 
agreement or other matters which will have a material impact on rights, etc. concerning 
the listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates or a fact which will have a material 
effect on such rights, etc. has occurred; 
h. Where the following (a) or (b) is applicable or any other material deviation that has an 
impact on investment decisions has occurred between the NAV per unit of a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF and the market price or the specific indicator, or any of these 
are likely to become applicable:  
(a) When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
and the closing price of the market price (meaning the absolute value of the value 
obtained by dividing the closing price in the trading session by the NAV per unit 
of a listed indicator-tracking ETF and subtracting 1, expressed as a percentage; the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
167 
same shall apply in this item) is 20% or more; or 
(b) When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed indicator-tracking ETF 
and the closing price of the market price is 5% or more for seven consecutive 
business days; or 
i. Where an entity calculating a specific indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking 
ETF discloses that the entity has decided to cease calculating such indicator.  
3. 
The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the examinations of 
disclosure of corporate information of a management company pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF. 
4.  In the case of a change in the contents of the report prescribed in Rule 1103, 
Paragraph 6 (in the case of submitting a report after a change pursuant to the 
provisions of this paragraph, such report after the change), excluding cases where 
the changed content is deemed to be of minor significance by the Exchange, the 
entity prescribed in Paragraph 1 pertaining to the listed indicator-tracking securities 
incorporated ETF shall submit the report after the change without delay. In this 
case, such entity shall agree to the Exchange making such report after the change 
available for public inspection. 
5.  Where the Exchange deems it necessary to perform an inquiry relating to the management 
system, etc. of the credit standing of the counterparty, the entity prescribed in Paragraph 1 
pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking security incorporated ETF shall immediately report 
matters of inquiry. 
6.  The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to 414, and Rule 416 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to the disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Paragraphs 2 and 3, and 
the provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to a 
management company pertaining to a listed ETF as prescribed in Paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 1107-2. Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Domestic Actively Managed 
ETFs 
1.  The management company pertaining to a listed domestic actively managed ETF shall 
conduct timely disclosure of information concerning said ETF. 
2.  Where any of the following items is applicable, the management company pertaining to a 
listed domestic actively managed ETF shall disclose details thereof immediately pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules (for matters referred to in Items (1) and (2), 
this excludes matters which are deemed by the Exchange to have a minor impact on 
investors’ investment decisions, including not meeting the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules): 
(1) Where a management company has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to 
in the following a. through c. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out 
matters pertaining to said decision): 
a. Actions referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (1), a., (a) through (c)-2, (d) through (q), and 
(t) of the preceding rule in the case of a listed domestic actively managed ETF (in this 
case, "listed indicator-tracking ETF" in a., (a)-2, (c)-2, (p) and (t) of the same item 
shall be "listed domestic actively managed ETF", and "indicator-tracking ETF" in a., 
(d) of the same item shall be "domestic actively managed ETF"); 
b. A change to the method of providing portfolio information as prescribed in Rule 1107-
4, Paragraph 1, Item (2) (the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule); or 
c. Suspension of provision of portfolio information to investors; 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (1), b., (a) through (g)-2 of the 
preceding rule has occurred to the management company (in this case, "Rule 1112, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
168 
Paragraph 1, Item (1)" in b., (b) of the same item shall be "Rule 1112-2, Item (1)" and 
"listed indicator-tracking ETF" in b., (h) of the same item shall be "listed domestic 
actively managed ETF"); 
(3) Where the trustee of the ETF has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in 
Paragraph 2, Item (1), c. of the preceding rule (including cases where it has decided not 
to carry out matters pertaining to said decision). In this case, "indicator-tracking ETF" 
in the same item, Sub-item b. shall be "domestic actively managed ETF", "indicator-
tracking ETF" in c., (a) of the same item shall be "domestic actively managed ETF", 
and "listed indicator-tracking ETF" in c. (b) of the same item shall be "listed domestic 
actively managed ETF"; 
(4) Where any of the facts referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (1), d. of the preceding rule has 
occurred to the trustee of the ETF (in this case, "Rule 1112, Paragraph 1, Item (2)" in 
d., (a) of the same item shall be "Rule 1112-2, Item (2)", and "listed indicator-tracking 
ETF" in d., (b) of the same item shall be "listed domestic actively managed ETF"); 
(5) Where the details of financial results of the fund pertaining to the ETF for a specified 
period or an interim specified period (meaning the six months after the commencement 
date of a specified period where said specified period exceeds six months) are decided; 
(6) If the ETF is a listed indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF, where any of the 
facts referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (1), e-2. of the preceding rule has occurred; 
(7) Where the management company has carried out transactions referred to in Article 13, 
Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act (limited to cases where the same article 
requires the delivery of documents to beneficiaries of the investment trust); 
(8) Where the following (a) or (b) is applicable or any other material deviation that has an 
impact on investment decisions has occurred between the NAV per unit of a listed 
domestic actively managed ETF and the market price, or any of these are likely to 
become applicable; 
a. When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed domestic actively managed 
ETF and the closing price of the market price (meaning the absolute value of the 
value obtained by dividing the closing price in the trading session by the NAV per 
unit of a listed domestic actively managed ETF and subtracting 1, expressed as a 
percentage; the same shall apply in this item) is 20% or more; or 
b. When the deviation between the NAV per unit of a listed domestic actively managed 
ETF and the closing price of the market price is 5% or more for seven consecutive 
business days; 
(9) Where there is a likelihood that portfolio information of the ETF will stop being 
continuously provided to investors; or 
(10) Where the annual average of the total net asset value of the ETF has fallen below JPY 
1 billion. 
3.  The provisions of Rule 412 shall apply mutatis mutandis to examinations of information 
disclosure pertaining to listed domestic actively managed ETFs. 
4.  If, after a domestic actively managed ETF is listed, any changes occur in the "Report on 
Product Characteristics of a Domestic Actively Managed ETF and Management System 
of Management Company" due to any of the matters prescribed in the Enforcement Rules, 
the management company of said ETF shall submit a revised report promptly after the 
change. 
5.  However, where any changes occur to the "Report on Product Characteristics of a Domestic 
Actively Managed ETF and Management System of Management Company" due to 
matters other than those specified in the preceding paragraph, it shall be sufficient for the 
management company of said ETF to submit a revised report within three months counting 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
169 
from the day following the end of the computation period in which said changes occurred 
(or, if the computation period is shorter than six months, the end of the computation period 
containing the day on which six months have elapsed from the date when said changes 
occurred). 
6.  In the case of changes as of the preceding two paragraphs, the management company of a 
listed domestic actively managed ETF shall agree that the Exchange can make said revised 
report available for public inspection. 
7.  The provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the preceding rule shall apply mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a listed domestic actively managed ETF is a listed indicator-tracking securities 
incorporated ETF. 
8.  The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to 414, and Rule 416 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Paragraphs 2 through 6, and the 
provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to those as 
prescribed in Paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 1107-3.  Provision of Information Concerning Listed Indicator-Tracking ETFs 
1.  The management company pertaining to listed indicator-tracking ETF (meaning the foreign 
investment corporation and the management company in cases of foreign ETFs falling 
under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose 
entrusted securities are said foreign ETFs) shall provide investors with information on said 
listed indicator-tracking ETF referred to in each of the following items (excluding Item (1) 
in cases of a domestic indicator-tracking ETF falling under a beneficiary certificate of a 
securities investment trust of other than a public or corporate bond investment trust, a 
domestic indicator-tracking ETF falling under a beneficiary certificate of an investment 
trust referred to in Article 12, Item (1) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order, 
foreign ETF, foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a domestic spot commodity ETF, a 
foreign spot commodity ETF and a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate) via the method of making available for public inspection. In this case, details 
of Items (2) and (3) shall be prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Details determined daily on the securities portfolio necessary to acquire beneficiary 
certificates for future additional trusts (excluding the day with no new details 
determined);  
(2) The daily total net assets of a listed indicator-tracking ETF (in cases of foreign ETFs 
falling under foreign investment securities similar to investment corporate bonds, it 
means the amount of such listed foreign ETFs) and total net assets per unit of a listed 
ETF (meaning the amount obtained by dividing the amount of investment trust assets, 
etc. by the quantity of such foreign ETFs, in cases where such foreign ETFs are foreign 
investment securities similar to investment corporate bonds; the same shall apply 
hereinafter); 
(3) The tracking performance pertaining to fluctuation between the net asset value per unit 
of a listed indicator-tracking ETF and the specific indicator;  
(4) Characteristics of the calculation of and points for attention regarding enhanced 
indicators, leveraged/inverse indicators, indicators referring to the price of commodity 
futures contracts or similar, and currency-hedged indicators; 
(5) The total expense ratio of a listed indicator-tracking ETN; and 
(6) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange. 
2. The party prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall submit the documents to the 
Exchange describing the method of information provision pursuant to the provisions of 
preceding paragraph. In cases where the party changes the method of information 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
170 
provision, it shall submit the documents to the Exchange in advance describing the 
method after the change.  
3. The party prescribed in Paragraph 1 shall agree that the Exchange makes documents 
submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph 
available for public inspection. 
 
Rule 1107-4. Provision of Information on Listed Domestic Actively Managed ETFs 
1. The management company of a listed domestic actively managed ETF shall provide investors 
with the information on said ETF referred to in each of the following items via a method by 
which it is made available for public inspection. In this case, details of Items (1) and (2) shall 
be specified by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Daily total NAV and NAV per unit; 
(2) Portfolio information (meaning detailed information as specified in the Rules about the 
ETF's assets; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) determined before the 
start of each daily trading session; 
(3) Information regarding performance in the previous month which states matters 
specified by the Exchange; 
(4) The total expense ratio of the ETF; and 
(5) Other matters deemed necessary by the Exchange. 
2. Entities prescribed in the preceding paragraph shall submit a document describing a method 
of providing information in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and 
if the method is changed, submit in advance a document describing the new method. 
3. Entities prescribed in Paragraph 1 shall agree that the Exchange can make the document 
submitted pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph available for public 
inspection. 
 
Rule 1108.  Submission of Documents, etc. Concerning Listed Indicator-Tracking ETFs 
1.  Submission of documents, etc. made by the entity as prescribed in Rule 1107, Paragraph1 
shall be carried out pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. 
In addition to the preceding paragraph, a management company of a listed indicator-
tracking ETF and trustee (meaning a foreign investment corporation and a management 
company in cases of a foreign ETF falling under foreign investment securities and a 
foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate whose entrusted security is said foreign ETF,) 
shall without delay submit documents which the Exchange requests for a good reason, and 
shall agree that the Exchange makes documents deemed necessary by it available for 
public inspection, out of such documents. 
 
Rule 1108-2.  Submission of Documents Regarding Listed Domestic Actively Managed 
ETFs 
1.  Submission of documents and other actions carried out by entities prescribed in Rule 1107-
2, Paragraph 1 shall be carried out pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2.  The management company and trustee pertaining to a listed domestic actively managed 
ETF shall submit, without delay, documents other than those in the preceding paragraph 
that are requested based on justifiable reasons by the Exchange and agree that the 
Exchange can make those documents it deems necessary available for public inspection. 
 
Rule 1109.  Selection of Agents, etc. 
An entity referred to in each of the following items shall, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules, select an entity that has an address or residence in Japan and has the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
171 
authority to deputize or represent an entity referred to in each of such items with respect to all 
acts in relation to the Exchange: 
(1) A management company pertaining to a listed foreign ETF (excluding a listed foreign ETF 
falling under a foreign investment security), a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate (excluding the certificate whose entrusted security is a foreign ETF falling under 
a foreign investment security), a listed foreign spot commodity ETF, or a listed foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate; 
(2) A foreign investment corporation pertaining to a listed foreign ETF (limited to those falling 
under foreign investment securities) or a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate 
(limited to those whose entrusted securities are foreign ETFs that fall under foreign 
investment securities). 
 
Rule 1110.  Effective Date, etc. of Split of Beneficiary Rights 
1. In the case of conducting a split of beneficiary rights pertaining to a listed domestic ETF, the 
management company pertaining to the listed domestic ETF shall specify the day following 
the record date for fixing the entities eligible for rights pertaining to such split as the effective 
date of such split. 
2. In the case prescribed in the preceding paragraph, when it is necessary to satisfy the 
requirement of obtaining a resolution, etc. in writing from beneficiaries, the management 
company pertaining to the listed domestic ETF shall set a day that falls on or after the third 
day (excluding non-business days) counting from the day on which the split prescribed in the 
same paragraph is determined to be conducted as the record date, etc. for fixing the entities 
eligible for rights pertaining to such split. 
 
Rule 1110-2.  Code of Conduct Regarding Listed ETFs 
1. A management company pertaining to a listed ETF (in the case of a foreign ETF falling under 
foreign investment securities or foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted 
securities is such foreign ETF, the foreign investment corporation and the management 
company) shall not conduct a reverse split or split of beneficiary rights or investment units 
pertaining to the listed ETF which is likely to disrupt the secondary market or undermine the 
interests of beneficiaries or investors. 
2. A management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF 
(in the case of a foreign ETF falling under foreign investment securities or foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities is such foreign ETF, the foreign investment 
corporation and the management company) shall endeavor to appropriately develop 
management systems, etc. concerning the credit standing of the counterparty of such ETF. 
3. The party prescribed in Paragraph 1 shall endeavor to provide investors with information 
which contributes to smooth trading and fair price formation and to create an 
environment that ensures fair price formation. 
 
Rule 1111.  Ensuring Effectiveness 
The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring effectiveness of a listed ETF. In this case, the Exchange shall deem that 
the provisions of Rules 1107-3 and 1107-4 are the provisions pertaining to disclosure of 
information concerning listed ETF by applying mutatis mutandis Rule 503, Paragraph 1, Item 
(3), Rule 504, Paragraph 1, Item (1), Rule 508, Paragraph 1, Item (1) and Rule 509, Paragraph 
1, Item (1). 
 
Rule 1112.  Delisting Criteria for Listed Indicator-Tracking ETFs 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
172 
1. Where a listed domestic indicator-tracking ETF and a listed domestic spot commodity ETF 
fall under any of the following items, the Exchange shall delist them. In this case, details of 
each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1)  Where a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls 
under any of the following a. through d.; provided, however, that the same shall not 
apply to cases where the business which has been carried out by a management 
company pertaining to such listed indicator-tracking ETF is taken over by another 
management company and such other management company submits an "ETF Listing 
Agreement" and a document assuring the matters prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 
1, Item (3): 
a.  Where registration of financial instruments business or registered financial 
institution business expires pursuant to the provisions of Article 50-2, Paragraph 2 
of the Act; 
b. Where registration of financial instruments business or registered financial 
institution business is cancelled pursuant to the provisions of Article 52, Paragraph 
1, Article 52-2, Paragraph 1, or Article 54 of the Act; 
c.  Where a management company ceases to be an entity which carries out investment 
management business by receiving an alteration registration prescribed in Article 
31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
c-2. With respect to a listed domestic indicator-tracking ETF which manages 
investment trust assets by investing in commodities or rights relating to 
commodities investment, etc. trading, the management company ceases to be an 
entity who carries out business pertaining to such management;  
c-3. Where the management company ceases to carry out investment 
management business due to a change in the method or details of business 
pertaining to registered financial institution business; or 
d. Where a management company ceases to be a member of the Investment Trusts 
Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association) (excluding cases where the 
management company is a registered financial institution); 
(2) Where a business license or authorization concerning the operation of a trust business 
is revoked from a trustee pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the business which has been 
carried out by a trustee pertaining to such listed indicator-tracking ETF is taken over 
by another trustee and such other trustee submits an "ETF Listing Agreement"; 
(2)-2 Where the trustor pertaining to a domestic spot commodity ETF ceases to be a 
listed company or a subsidiary of such company (limited to cases where the 
management company is the trustee); however, this shall not apply to the cases 
referred to in the following a. or b.  
a. Where the trustor pertaining to such listed domestic spot commodity ETF ceases to 
be a listed company or a subsidiary of such company, but assures in writing to 
appropriately report matters for verification immediately (excluding cases specified 
in the Enforcement Rules) where the Exchange deems it necessary and verifies the 
contribution status, etc. of commodities; or 
b. Where the status of being the trustor pertaining to such listed domestic spot 
commodity ETF is succeeded by any other listed company or a subsidiary of such 
company, and such other listed company or subsidiary of such company assures in 
writing to appropriately report matters for verification immediately where the 
Exchange deems it necessary and verifies the contribution status, etc. of 
commodities;  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
173 
(2)-3 Where the trustor pertaining to the listed domestic spot commodity ETF ceases to be 
a member or trading participant of a commodities market or foreign commodities 
market or such equivalent party as specified by the Enforcement Rules (limited to 
cases where the management company is the trustee); however, this shall not apply 
to cases where the status of being the trustor pertaining to such listed domestic spot 
commodity ETF is succeeded by other member, trading participant, or such 
equivalent party as specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(3)  Where an issue of a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under any of the following a. 
through k. (excluding b (c), b-2 through b-5, and i-2 in cases of a listed domestic 
indicator-tracking ETF falling under a beneficiary certificate of a securities 
investment trust of other than a public or corporate bond investment trust; excluding 
b (h), b-2 through b-5, and i-2 in cases of a listed domestic indicator-tracking ETF 
falling under a beneficiary certificate of an investment trust referred to in Article 12, 
Item (1) or (2) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order; and excluding a, b, 
and b-6 in cases of a listed domestic spot commodity ETF): 
a. A listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under the following (a) or (b) (excluding, 
where a beneficiary certificate prescribed in (a) is changed to a beneficiary 
certificate prescribed in (b) or where a beneficiary certificate prescribed in (b) is 
changed to a beneficiary certificate prescribed in (a), cases the Exchange deems, in 
consideration of matters specified by the Enforcement Rules, not lacking the public 
interest or investor protection): 
  (a) Where it ceases to be a beneficiary certificate of a securities investment trust 
other than a public and corporate investment trust 
  (b) Where it ceases to be a beneficiary certificate of an investment trust referred to 
in Article 12, Item (1) or (2) of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Order; 
b. Any changes in basic terms and conditions of an investment trust which falls under 
any of the following (a) through (i) is made: 
(a) Where the provisions to pursue, as a basic policy, investment performance 
tracking a specified indicator cease to exist; 
(b) Where an investment trust agreement period is established; 
(c) Where beneficiaries become able to request the partial cancellation of the 
investment trust agreement during the trust agreement period (excluding cases 
where there is a significant change to the general conditions, etc., the indicator-
tracking ETF is purchased based on requests by beneficiaries who oppose such 
significant change to the general conditions, etc., and a request is made for 
partial termination of the investment trust agreement regarding such indicator-
tracking ETF.); 
(d) Where the computation period is changed to less than one (1) month; 
(e) Where the provision to perform solicitation of applications for acquisition of 
the beneficiary certificates by means of a public offering ceases to exist; 
(f) Where the provision to list the beneficiary certificates on a financial 
instruments exchange ceases to exist;  
(g) Where the provision to commence procedures to terminate the investment 
trust on the day when the beneficiary certificates are delisted from all 
financial instruments exchanges ceases to exist; 
(h) Where the provision that the management company provides instructions to 
the trustor to perform conversion of, out of securities and other assets 
belonging to investment trust assets, etc., those equivalent to interest held by 
a beneficiary in such investment trust assets, etc. of beneficiary certificates 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
174 
pertaining to such partial cancellation when there is a partial cancellation of 
the investment trust agreement during the trust agreement period due to a 
request by such beneficiary ceases to exist; or 
(i) Where the provision is established to the effect that an investment trust 
agreement shall be cancelled subject to fluctuation in the value of a specific 
indicator or the base value (excluding the provision to the effect that an 
investment trust agreement shall be cancelled if the value of a specific 
indicator or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or other provisions 
deemed appropriate by the Exchange).    
b-2 Any change to basic terms and conditions of a trust falling under any of the 
following (a) to (e) is made: 
(a) Where provisions concerning a structure of tracking prices of a specified 
commodity are abolished; 
(b) Where a period of a trust agreement is prescribed; 
(c) Where beneficiaries become able to request partial cancellation of the 
investment trust agreement during the period of a trust agreement (excluding 
cases where there is an important change to the trust, etc., the indicator-
tracking ETF is purchased based on requests by beneficiaries who oppose 
such important change to the trust, etc., and a request is made for partial 
termination of the trust agreement regarding such indicator-tracking ETF.);  
(c)-2 Where the provision to perform solicitation of applications for acquisition 
of the beneficiary certificates by means of a public offering ceases to 
exist;  
(c)-3 Where the provision to list the beneficiary certificates on a financial 
instruments exchange ceases to exist; 
(c)-4 Where the provision to commence procedures to terminate the trust on the 
day when the beneficiary certificates are delisted from all financial 
instruments exchanges ceases to exist; 
(c)-5 Where the provision relating to conditions for commodities pertaining to 
trust assets ceases to exist; 
(c)-6 Where the provision to guarantee that commodities to be contributed by 
the trustor shall satisfy the conditions for commodities specified in the 
basic terms and conditions of a trust ceases to exist;  
(d) Where a computation period becomes less than one (1) month or becomes 
more than one (1) year; or 
(e) Where the provision is established to the effect that a trust agreement shall be 
cancelled subject to fluctuation in the value of a specific indicator or the base 
value (excluding the provision to the effect that a trust agreement shall be 
cancelled if the value of a specific indicator or the base value falls to or below 
zero (0), or other provisions deemed appropriate by the Exchange).    
b-3 A trust agreement of a listed indicator-tracking ETF ceases to be such agreement 
as entered into by and between with a single management company and a single 
trustee (excluding cases where the management company is the trustee); 
b-4 A listed indicator-tracking ETF becomes a limited liability trust prescribed in 
Article 2, Paragraph 12 of the Trust Act; 
b-5 Where a commodity which does not satisfy the conditions for commodities 
pertaining to trust assets specified in the basic terms and conditions of a trust 
and when procedures to improve such situation are not taken immediately or 
such situation does not improve without delay. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
175 
b-6 Where such listed indicator-tracking ETF is an indicator-tracking securities 
incorporated ETF which falls under either of the following (a) or (b): 
 (a) In the case of the financial situation of the counterparty pertaining to such 
listed indicator-tracking ETF deteriorates and falls into a situation specified by 
the Enforcement Rules, when such investment trust asset, etc. are not changed 
to assets other than securities issued or guaranteed by such counterparty, or 
rights pertaining to contracts guaranteed by the other party to a contract with 
such counterparty or such counterparty during the period from the day the 
Exchange deems such situation until the day one (1) year has elapsed 
(hereinafter referred to "grace period" in this (a)). However, when the 
Exchange deems it inappropriate to wait for the grace period to elapse, it shall 
be handled as specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
(b) In the case where the management company is no longer able to maintain the 
management system concerning the credit standing of the counterparty; 
provided, however, this shall not apply to cases where the business of such 
management company is succeeded by another management company, and 
such other management company maintains the management system 
concerning the credit standing of the company. 
c. The following (a) or (b) is met: 
(a) Where a decision is made to select an entity other than a qualified institutional 
investor as a designated participant; or 
(b) Where a designated participant loses its status as a qualified institutional 
investor and one (1) month or more passes continuously thereafter; 
d. The number of designated participants has been less than two for six continuous 
months or more; 
d-2. The number of designated participants who are trading participants of the 
Exchange has continuously been zero for six months or more; 
e. The correlation coefficient between the total net asset per investment unit of listed 
indicator-tracking ETF and the indicator becomes less than 0.9 and does not return 
to 0.9 or more within one (1) year; 
f. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report 
or an interim audit report as in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order 
on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an 
audit firm is attached is not submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within a month 
after a period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of 
the Act passes (within three months in the event that such submission delay is due 
to reasons not attributable to a management company pertaining to listed indicator-
tracking ETF such as an act of providence).; 
g. The following (a) or (b) is met: 
(a) Where there are false statements in an annual securities report, etc. pertaining 
to a listed indicator-tracking ETF and the Exchange deems that it is clearly 
difficult to maintain order in the market if the ETF is not delisted immediately; 
or 
(b) Concerning an audit report attached to financial statements, etc. or an interim 
audit report attached to interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF, where certified public accountants state an "adverse 
opinion" or "disclaimer of opinion" in an audit report, and an "opinion that the 
interim financial statements, etc. do not provide useful information" or 
"disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit report, and the Exchange deems that 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
176 
it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the market if the ETF is not delisted 
immediately; however, excluding cases where the "disclaimer of opinion" is 
stated, and such statement is made due to reasons not attributable to the 
management company of the listed indicator-tracking ETF, such as act of 
providence 
h. Where an entity who had entered into a listing agreement pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF has committed a material breach of the listing agreement 
as prescribed by the Enforcement Rules, where an entity has committed a material 
breach as to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 1103, Paragraph 1 or where an entity that should enter into a 
listing agreement ceases to be a party to the listing agreement; 
i. Where an investment trust agreement or a trust agreement pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF terminates; 
i-2. Where a trust pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF is split; 
i-3. Where there ceases to be a specific indicator pertaining to a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF 
i-4. Where an indicator pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF is changed 
to a new indicator or other similar cases are occurred, and when the 
Exchange deems that the indicator after the change does not meet Rule 1104, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2), d.(including cases pursuant to Paragraph 2 Item (1) 
of the same rule, Paragraph 3, Item(1) of the same Rule, Paragraph 4, Item 
(1) of the same rule, Paragraph 5, Item (1) of the same rule or Paragraph 6 
of the same rule), or when the Exchange deems that changes in such 
indicator have a significant impact on characteristics associated with a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF; 
j. Where such listed indicator-tracking ETF has ceased to be handled in the book-
entry transfer operation conducted by a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
or 
k. Where the Exchange deems that delisting of such listed indicator-tracking ETF is 
appropriate for the purpose of the public interest or the protection of investors, in 
addition to cases of the above a. through j. 
2. Where a listed foreign ETF (excluding those ETFs falling under foreign investment 
securities), a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate (excluding those certificates 
whose entrusted securities are foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities), a 
listed foreign spot commodity ETF, or a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate falls under any of the following items, the Exchange shall delist it. In this case, 
details of each of such items shall be prescribed by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF has ceased 
to carry out the business as management company with the license expired, the approval 
revoked, or registration, etc. altered by the Prime Minister, etc.; provided, however, that 
the same shall not apply to cases where the business which has been carried out by a 
management company pertaining to such listed indicator-tracking ETF is taken over by 
another management company and such other management company submits an "ETF 
Listing Agreement" and a document assuring the matters prescribed in Rule 1104, 
Paragraph 1, Item (3) that apply to the provisions of Paragraph 2, Item (1), Paragraph 3, 
Item (1), Paragraph 5, Item (1), or Paragraph 6 of the same rule; 
(2) Where a trustee pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under Item (2) of the 
preceding paragraph; 
(3) Where a security pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under any of the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
177 
following a. through f.: 
a. Where a listed company falls under any of e. to i-4 of Item (3) of the preceding 
paragraph. In this instance, the term "a listed indicator-tracking ETF" in Item (3), 
i., i-3. and i-4. of the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be replaced with "a 
listed indicator-tracking ETF (in cases of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate or a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, it 
shall be a foreign ETF or a foreign spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted 
security respectively)". And the term "a listed indicator-tracking ETF" in Item (3), 
i-2 of the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to be replaced with "a listed 
indicator-tracking ETF (in cases of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate 
or a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, it shall include 
a foreign ETF or a foreign spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted security)"; 
b. Where a change to the basic terms and conditions of a trust (the basic terms and 
conditions of a trust pertaining to a foreign ETF or a foreign spot commodity ETF 
which is an entrusted security in cases of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate and a listed foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate) 
which falls under any of the following (a) to (b) (excluding (a)-3 in cases of a listed 
foreign ETF and a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate; and excluding (a) 
and (a)-2 in cases of a listed foreign spot commodity ETF and a listed foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate): 
(a) Where the provision to manage the fluctuation rate of the net asset value per unit 
of investment trust assets, etc. to track the fluctuation rate of a specified indicator 
(including provisions with similar content) ceases to exist;  
(a)-2 Cases referred to in Item (3), b.(d) of the preceding paragraph; 
(a)-3 Cases referred to in Item (3), b-2 (a) or (d) of the preceding paragraph;  
(a)-4 Where the provision is established to the effect that a trust agreement shall be 
cancelled subject to fluctuation in the value of a specific indicator or the base value 
(excluding the provision to the effect that a trust agreement shall be cancelled if 
the value of a specific indicator or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or 
other provisions deemed appropriate by the Exchange).    
or 
(b) Where a period of a trust agreement (a trust agreement pertaining to a foreign 
ETF or a foreign spot commodity ETF which is an entrusted security in cases of 
a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate and a listed foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate) is set forth (excluding cases where a 
trust agreement period (limited to the period prescribed in Article 2-3, Paragraph 
2 of the Enforcement Regulations of the Special Taxation Measures Act ) is set 
forth pursuant to the provisions of laws and regulations of a country in which a 
foreign investment trust or a trust is created; 
b-2. Where falling under Item (3), b-6 of the preceding paragraph; 
    c. Where such listed indicator-tracking ETF has ceased to be handled in the custody 
and book-entry transfer operation for the foreign stock, etc. or the book-entry 
transfer operation of a designated book-entry transfer institution;  
    d. Where such listed indicator-tracking ETF (in cases of a listed foreign ETF and a 
listed foreign spot commodity ETF, this shall include a foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificate and a foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary 
certificate whose entrusted securities are such ETFs; the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this d.) has been decided to be delisted from all foreign financial 
instruments exchanges, etc. on which said indicator-tracking ETF is listed or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
178 
continuously traded, or where the Exchange deems that prices of such listed 
indicator-tracking ETF at foreign financial instruments exchanges, etc. have 
ceased to be available immediately; provided, however, that the same shall not 
apply to cases where delisting is deemed inappropriate in consideration of the 
reason, etc. for delisting on foreign financial instruments exchanges, etc., the state 
of trading at the Exchange and any other circumstances;  
    e. In cases of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate and a listed foreign spot 
commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate, where a deposit agreement, etc. as 
prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 3, Item (3) and any other agreement are 
terminated. Provided, however, this shall not apply to cases where such deposit 
agreement, etc. and any other agreement are terminated due to change in a 
custodian, etc. pertaining to a listed ETF trust beneficiary certificate or a listed 
foreign spot commodity ETF trust beneficiary certificate; or.  
f. In addition to the preceding a. through e., where the Exchange deems that delisting 
of such security is appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
3. When a listed foreign ETF (limited to those falling under foreign investment securities) and 
a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate (limited to those certificates whose entrusted 
securities are foreign ETFs falling under foreign investment securities) falls under any of the 
following items, it shall be delisted. In this instance, details of applying each of such items 
shall be as prescribed in Enforcement Rules. 
  (1) A foreign investment corporation pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under 
a reason for dissolution as prescribed in Article 222 of the Investment Trust Act; 
  (2) When a foreign investment corporation pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls 
into states of being requiring to take bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation 
proceedings in accordance with the laws or when it falls into a status corresponding to 
this; 
  (3) When a fund pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF terminates in accordance with 
the reason as prescribed in the terms and conditions or a document similar thereto; 
  (4) When a management company pertaining to a listed indicator-tracking ETF comes to 
cease to carry out business as a management company because any license, permission 
or registration, etc. required for carrying out business as a management company has 
terminated, been canceled or changed. However, the same shall not apply to cases where 
the business that has been carried out by the management company pertaining to such 
listed indicator-tracking ETF is taken over by other management company and, in 
addition, such other management company submits an "ETF listing agreement". 
  (5) Where an issue of a listed indicator-tracking ETF falls under any of the following a to f: 
     a. Where any of Paragraph 1, Item (3), e. through h., i-3. and i-4. is met; 
b. Where a foreign investment corporation of a listed indicator-tracking ETF is to change 
the terms and conditions falling under any of the following (a) through (c) or a 
document similar thereto: 
(a) Cases referred to in Item (3), b.(a) in the preceding paragraph; 
(b) Where the operational period becomes less than one (1) month; 
(c) Where the provision is established to the effect that a fund shall be closed subject 
to fluctuation in the value of a specific indicator or the base value (excluding the 
provision to the effect that a fund shall be closed if the value of a specific indicator 
or the base value falls to or below zero (0), or other provisions deemed appropriate 
by the Exchange).    
b-2. Where falling under Paragraph 1, Item (3), b-6. In this case, "management 
company" in (b) of the same b-6 shall be read as "foreign investment 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
179 
corporation and management company"; 
c. Such listed indicator-tracking ETF ceases to be subject to the custody and book-entry 
transfer operations for foreign stocks, etc. or the book-entry transfer operations of a 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
d. Where such listed indicator-tracking ETF is decided to be delisted from all the foreign 
financial instruments exchanges, etc. where such listed indicator-tracking issue is listed 
or continuously traded (including, in cases of a listed foreign ETF, foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are such ETFs, and including, in 
cases of a listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificate, a foreign ETF which is an 
entrusted security; the same shall apply hereinafter in this d) or where the Exchange 
deems that prices or quotes of such listed indicator-tracking ETF become unavailable 
immediately from foreign financial instruments exchanges, etc. However, the same 
shall not apply when delisting is not deemed appropriate in consideration of reasons 
for delisting such listed indicator-tracking ETF from foreign financial instruments 
exchanges, etc., the state of trading at the Exchange or any other matters; 
e. In cases of listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates, where a deposit agreement 
prescribed in Rule 1104, Paragraph 3, Item (3), etc. or any other agreement terminates. 
However, the same shall not apply when such deposit agreement, etc. or any other 
agreement terminates because of changes in a deposit institution, etc. pertaining to the 
listed foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates; 
f. In addition to the preceding a. to e., where the Exchange deems delisting of such issue 
is appropriate for the public interest and the protection of investors.  
4. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination pertaining to 
delisting pursuant to the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs. 
 
Rule 1112-2.  Delisting Criteria for Listed Domestic Actively Managed ETFs 
1. Where a listed domestic actively managed ETF falls under any of the following items, the 
Exchange shall delist it. Details of the application of each of these items shall be specified in 
the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where the management company pertaining to the ETF falls under any of the following 
a. through f.; 
a. Registration as a financial instruments business or registered financial institution 
business expires pursuant to the provisions of Article 50-2, Paragraph 2 of the Act; 
b. Registration as a financial instruments business or registered financial institution 
business is cancelled pursuant to the provisions of Article 52, Paragraph 1, Article 52-
2, Paragraph 1, or Article 54 of the Act; 
c. It ceases to carry out an investment management business because of receiving an 
alteration registration as prescribed in Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
d. For an ETF which manages investment trust assets by investing in rights pertaining to 
transactions related to commodities investment, etc., the management company ceases 
to carry out business pertaining to such management; 
e. It ceases to carry out an investment management business due to a change in the method 
or details of its business pertaining to the registered financial institution business; or 
f. It ceases to be a member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General 
Incorporated Association) (unless it is a registered financial institution); 
(2) Where the business license or authorization concerning the operation of the trust business 
is revoked from the trustee pertaining to the ETF; provided, however, that the same shall 
not apply to cases where the business which has been carried out by said trustee is taken 
over by another trustee and said other trustee submits an "ETF Listing Agreement"; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
180 
(3) Where the ETF falls under any of the following a. through h.: 
a. It ceases to be a beneficiary certificate of a securities investment trust other than a public 
or corporate investment trust; 
b. Changes are made to the basic terms and conditions of the investment trust which fall 
under any of the following (a) through (j): 
(a) A provision is established that specifies management so that the fluctuation rate of 
the net asset value per unit matches the fluctuation rate of a specific indicator; 
(b) The period of the investment trust agreement is fixed; 
(c) The computation period is changed to less than one month; 
(d) The provision that solicitation of applications for acquisition of the beneficiary 
certificate shall be conducted by public offering ceases to exist; 
(e) The provision that the beneficiary certificate shall be listed on a financial 
instruments exchange ceases to exist; 
(f) The provision stating that if the beneficiary certificate is delisted from all financial 
instruments exchanges, procedures for terminating the investment trust will be 
commenced on the day the beneficiary certificate is delisted ceases to exist; 
(g) The provision stating that if a beneficiary requests a partial cancellation of the 
investment trust agreement during the trust agreement period, the management 
company shall instruct the trustee to convert the securities and other assets within 
the investment trust assets that are equivalent to the interest held by said 
beneficiary in the investment trust assets of the beneficiary certificates that are 
being partially canceled ceases to exist; 
(h) A provision that would cancel the investment trust agreement based on base price 
fluctuations (excluding statements that the investment trust agreement is subject to 
cancellation when the base price falls to or below zero or other statements that TSE 
deems appropriate) is established; 
(i) Investment restrictions that meet the requirements of Article 17-2 of the Rules on 
Management of Investment Trusts, etc. established by The Investment Trusts 
Association, Japan are removed (except when investment restrictions that meet the 
requirements of Article 17-3, Paragraph 1, Item (3) of the Rules on Management 
of Investment Trusts, etc. are established as well as a provision prescribing that the 
beneficial investment ratio in any particular single issue or investment security 
shall not exceed 20% of the total NAV of the trust assets); or 
(j) Investment restrictions that meet the requirements of Article 17-3, Paragraph 
1, Item (3) of the Rules on Management of Investment Trusts, etc. established 
by The Investment Trusts Association, Japan are removed, or the provision 
prescribing that the beneficial investment ratio in any particular single issue or 
investment security shall not exceed 20% of the total NAV of the trust assets is 
removed (except when investment restrictions that meet the requirements of 
Article 17-2 of the Rules on Management of Investment Trusts, etc. are 
established); 
b-2. The ETF falls under any of the following (a) through (d): 
(a) Beneficiary certificates of investment trusts that are managed such that the 
fluctuation rate of the NAV per unit tracks the fluctuation rate of a specific indicator 
multiplied by a predetermined factor; 
(b) Beneficiary certificates of complex investment trusts similar to OTC derivative 
transactions as defined in Article 2 of the Rules on Complex Investment Trusts 
Similar to Over-the-Counter Derivatives Transactions established by the 
Investment Trusts Association, Japan; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
181 
(c) Beneficiary certificates of currency selection-type investment trusts or similar as 
defined in Article 3, Paragraph 2 of the Rules for Preparation of Delivery Prospectus 
established by the Investment Trusts Association, Japan; or 
(d) Other beneficiary certificates of investment trusts that the Exchange deems 
inappropriate from the perspectives of risks and complexity related to fluctuations in 
the base value. 
c. The ETF is an indicator-tracking securities incorporated ETF that falls under Paragraph 
1, Item (3), b-6. of the preceding rule (in this case, "listed indicator-tracking ETF" in 
b-6. of the same item shall be "listed domestic actively managed ETF"); 
d. It falls under Paragraph 1, Item (3) c. of the preceding rule; 
e. It falls under Paragraph 1, Item (3) d. or d-2. of the preceding rule; 
f. Where the annual average of the total net asset value has fallen below JPY 1 billion and 
does not reach at least JPY 1 billion within one year. However, if the Exchange deems 
it inappropriate to apply this criterion due to a sudden deterioration of market 
conditions overall, it shall specify the criterion on a case-by-case basis; 
g. It falls under any of Paragraph 1, Item (3), f. through i. of the preceding paragraph (in 
this case, "listed indicator-tracking ETF" in f. through i. of the same item and j. through 
k. of the same item shall be "listed domestic actively managed ETF"); or 
h. The portfolio information has continuously not been provided to investors for a period 
of one month, except when the Exchange deems that this is for reasons beyond the 
control of the management company such as natural disasters. 
 
Rule 1113.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed ETF to request certified public accountants, etc. who perform an audit 
certification of financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. (including those 
who have previously been said certified public accountants, etc.; the same shall apply in the 
following paragraph) to provide explanation or other information regarding a particular issue, 
the management company or trustee pertaining to the listed ETF (meaning a foreign 
investment corporation and a management company in cases of foreign ETFs falling under 
foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted 
securities are such foreign ETFs) shall cooperate in this process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to parties prescribed in the preceding paragraph for the 
purpose of requiring said certified public accountants, etc. to provide explanations or other 
information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, 
said parties shall each promptly submit a document stating that they agree to said certified 
public accountants, etc. providing said explanations or other information. 
 
Rule 1114.  Delisting Date 
Where the delisting of a listed ETF is decided, handling of the delisting date shall be provided 
by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1115.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision  
Where a listed ETF is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed ETF as a security under supervision in order 
to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1116.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
182 
Where a listed ETF is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed ETF as a security to be delisted for a period 
until the day before the delisting date in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1117.  Fees Relating to Listing 
A management company that intends to make an application for initial listing of an ETF 
(meaning a management company or foreign investment corporation in cases of foreign ETFs 
falling under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose 
entrusted securities are such foreign ETFs) or a management company pertaining to a listed 
ETF (meaning a management company or foreign investment corporation in cases of foreign 
ETFs falling under foreign investment securities and foreign ETF trust beneficiary certificates 
whose entrusted securities are such foreign ETFs) shall pay a listing examination fee, an initial 
listing fee, an additional listing fee at the time of additional trust or at the time of an additional 
issue, an annual listing fee and other fees relating to listing pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1118.  Succession at the Time of Technical Listing 
In application of the provisions stipulated by the Enforcement Rules to a management company 
and a trustee pertaining to a listed domestic ETF upon the application of the provisions of Rule 
1106, the management company and the trustee of such domestic ETF shall be deemed same 
as the management company and the trustee of such domestic ETF which was delisted due to 
consolidation prescribed in Paragraph 1 of the same rule; provided, however, that this shall not 
apply if the Exchange deems it inappropriate. 
 
Rule 1119.  Provisions Applied Mutatis Mutandis 
The provisions of Rule 425, Rule 429, Rule 606, and Rule 610 shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to ETFs. 
 
Chapter 3 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Rule 1120. Special Provisions on Information Provision in Consideration of the Impact of 
the Situation in Ukraine in 2022 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rules 1107-3 and 1107-4, the management company 
pertaining to listed ETFs (meaning the foreign investment corporation and the management 
company in cases of foreign ETFs, which fall under foreign investment securities, and foreign 
ETF trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are said foreign ETFs) shall not be 
required of the provision of the information specified in these provisions that the Exchange 
deems inappropriate to require in consideration of the impact of the situation in Ukraine in 2022. 
 
Rule 1121. Special Provisions on Submission of Documents, etc. in Consideration of the 
Impact of the Situation in Ukraine in 2022 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 1108 and 1108-2, the management company pertaining 
to listed ETF (meaning the foreign investment corporation and the management company in 
cases of foreign ETFs, which fall under foreign investment securities, and foreign ETF trust 
beneficiary certificates whose entrusted securities are said foreign ETFs) shall not be required 
of the submission of documents specified in the provisions of these rules that the Exchange 
deems inappropriate to require in consideration of the impact of the situation in Ukraine in 2022. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
183 
Rule 1122. Special Provisions on Delisting Criteria in Consideration of the Impact of the 
Situation in Ukraine in 2022 
Out of the criteria specified in Rule 1112 and Rule 1112-2, those the Exchange deems 
inappropriate in consideration of the impact of the situation in Ukraine in 2022 shall not be 
applied to listed ETFs. 
 
Part 6 
Funds 
 
Chapter 1 
General Provisions 
 
Rule 1201.  Definitions in Part 6 
The definitions of the terms referred to in each of the following items in Part 6 shall be defined 
as follows: 
(1) Infrastructure-related securities mean assets (excluding infrastructure securities) referred 
to in the following a. through g. 
a. Stocks (limited to cases where more than 50% of the value of the assets held by the issuer 
of said stock consists of infrastructure assets, etc.) 
b. Equity interest under an agreement in which one party contributes equity in order for the 
other party to manage more than 50% of the value of contributed assets by investing in 
infrastructure assets, etc., in which the other party manages more than 50% of the value 
of contributed assets by investing in infrastructure assets, etc. and in which such party 
distributes the profits arising from such management; 
c. Preferred equity investment securities prescribed in the Act on Securitization of Assets 
(limited to those in cases where more than 50% of the value of the assets acquired by the 
specific purpose company in the course of business pertaining to asset securitization are 
managed by investing in infrastructure assets, etc.); 
d. Beneficiary certificates (limited to those in cases where more than 50% of the value of the 
investment trust assets of the investment trust are managed by investing in infrastructure 
assets, etc.); 
e. Investment securities (limited to those in cases where more than 50% of the value of the 
assets held for management by the investment corporation are managed by investing in 
infrastructure assets, etc.); 
f. Beneficiary certificates from special purpose trusts prescribed in the Act on Securitization 
of Assets (limited to those in cases where more than 50% of the value of the trust assets 
of the specific purpose trust are managed by investing in infrastructure assets, etc.); and 
g. Rights based on foreign laws and regulations or securities issued by a foreign entity, which 
have the nature of the rights or securities referred to in a. through the preceding f. 
(1)-2 Infrastructure assets mean assets referred to in the following a. through i. 
a. Renewable power generation facility; 
b. Concession of public facilities (limited to rights to manage public facilities, etc. pertaining 
to assets referred to in, a. or c.); 
c. Other assets specified in the Enforcement Rules; 
d. Land and buildings, as well as leasehold rights, superficies, and servitude of said land and 
buildings for the purpose of managing the assets referred to in a. through the preceding 
c.; 
e. Assets (excluding assets referred to in the preceding d.) necessary to manage the assets 
referred to in a. through c. that are prescribed in the Enforcement Rules; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
184 
f. Assets prescribed in Rule 16-2, Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Financial Statements Regulation, 
for which leased properties are the assets referred to in a. and c. through the preceding e.; 
g. Leasehold rights pertaining to the assets referred to in, a., c., and e. (limited to tangible 
fixed assets in the case of assets referred to in e.); 
h. Trust beneficiary rights where assets referred to in a. through the preceding g. are 
entrusted; and 
i. Assets in foreign countries equivalent to the assets referred to in a. through the preceding 
h. 
(1)-3 Infrastructure assets, etc. mean infrastructure assets and infrastructure securities. 
(1)-4 Infrastructure investment assets mean, in accordance with the types of management 
assets, etc. referred to in the following a. through c., assets under management, etc. 
(including assets under management, etc. that are expected to be acquired; the same shall 
apply in this item) specified in such a. through c. 
a. Assets under management, etc. that are infrastructure assets; 
Said infrastructure assets, 
b. Assets under management, etc. that are infrastructure securities; 
Infrastructure assets in which the issuer of the infrastructure securities invests, and 
c. Assets under management, etc. that are infrastructure-related securities; 
Infrastructure assets in which the issuer of the infrastructure-related securities invests, or 
those infrastructure securities in which said issuers invests. 
(1)-5 An infrastructure fund means a domestic infrastructure fund, a foreign infrastructure 
fund, or a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate. 
(1)-6 Infrastructure securities mean the following assets referred to in a. through g. 
a. Stock (limited to cases where assets of companies issuing said stock are restricted to 
infrastructure assets, current assets, etc. and assets specified in the Enforcement Rules 
(hereinafter referred to as "eligible infrastructural assets")) 
b. Equity interest under an agreement in which one party contributes equity in order for the 
other party to manage the entire amount of contributed assets by investing in eligible 
infrastructural assets, in which the other party manages contributed assets by investing 
only in said assets, and in which said other party distributes profits arising from said 
management; 
c. Preferred equity investment securities prescribed in the Act on Securitization of Assets 
(limited to those for which the assets acquired by specific purpose companies in the 
course of business pertaining to asset securitization are restricted to eligible 
infrastructural assets); 
d. Beneficiary certificates (limited to those for which investment trust assets of the 
investment trust are restricted to eligible infrastructural assets); 
e. Investment securities (limited to those for which assets held by the investment 
corporation for the purpose of management are restricted to eligible infrastructural 
assets); 
f. Beneficiary certificates of specific purpose trusts prescribed in the Act on Securitization 
of Assets (limited to those for which trust assets of the specific purpose trusts are 
restricted to eligible infrastructural assets); and 
g. Rights based on foreign laws and regulations or securities issued by a foreign entity that 
have the nature of rights or securities referred to in a. through the preceding f. 
(1)-7 Assets under management, etc. mean investment trust assets of the relevant investment 
trusts or foreign investment trusts in cases where the real estate investment trust securities 
pertaining to an initial listing application, listed real estate investment trust securities, 
infrastructure funds (excluding foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates; the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
185 
same shall apply in this item) pertaining to an initial listing application, or a listed 
infrastructure fund (excluding listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary 
certificates: the same shall apply in this item), or alternatively, a foreign infrastructure fund 
trust beneficiary certificate pertaining to an initial listing application or a foreign 
infrastructure fund that are beneficiary securities of listed foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificates are investment trusts or beneficiary certificates of foreign 
investment trust; otherwise, assets of the investment corporation that issues the relevant 
investment securities or foreign investment securities in cases where the real estate 
investment trust securities pertaining to an initial listing application, listed real estate 
investment trust securities, a venture fund pertaining to an initial listing application, a listed 
venture fund, a country fund pertaining to an initial listing application, a listed country fund, 
an infrastructure fund pertaining to an initial listing application, a listed infrastructure fund, 
or foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates pertaining to an initial listing 
application, or alternatively, a foreign infrastructure fund that consists of entrusted 
securities of listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates are investment 
securities or foreign investment securities; 
(2) The LPS Act means the Limited Partnership Act for Investment (Act No. 90 of 1998); 
(2)-2 Operators means the entity specified in the Enforcement Rules who plays a leading role 
in making decisions on matters regarding management of infrastructure investment assets; 
(2)-3 Foreign infrastructure funds means beneficiary certificates of foreign investment trust 
referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act, or foreign investment securities 
referred to in Item (11) of the same Paragraph that are managed for the purpose of primarily 
investing funds of investors in infrastructure assets, etc.; 
(2)-4 Foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate means, of securities trust 
beneficiary certificates prescribed in Article 2-3, Item (3) of the Enforcement Order, those 
whose entrusted securities are foreign infrastructure funds; 
(3) Country funds means foreign investment securities as referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 
1, Item (11) of the Act (excluding those falling under foreign ETFs) which are managed for 
the purpose of investing in securities for a specific country or region; 
(3)-2 A Management company means any type of company referred to in the following from 
a. through d.; 
a. In case a domestic infrastructure fund falls under an investment security, an asset 
management company that has been entrusted with management of the assets from an 
investment corporation that is an issuer of the domestic infrastructure fund 
b. In case a domestic infrastructure fund falls under a beneficiary certificate of investment 
trust, the investment trust management company that is an entrustor pertaining to the 
beneficiary certificate; 
c. In cases where a foreign infrastructure fund falls under a foreign investment security and 
a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate whose entrusted securities are 
foreign infrastructure fund falls under a foreign investment security, a corporation that 
has been established in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign 
country and carries out by profession any acts equivalent to the acts referred to in Article 
2, Paragraph 8, Item (12) of the Act with respect to the assets pertaining to the foreign 
infrastructure funds that are entrusted securities of said foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificates in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign 
country; 
d. In cases where a foreign infrastructure fund falls under a beneficiary certificate of foreign 
investment trust and a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate whose 
entrusted securities are foreign infrastructure funds that fall under entrusted securities 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
186 
of a foreign investment trust, a corporation that has been established in accordance with 
foreign laws and regulations in a foreign country and carries out by profession any acts 
equivalent to the acts referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 8, Item (14) of the Act with 
respect to the trust assets pertaining to the foreign infrastructure funds whose entrusted 
securities of said foreign infrastructure funds or said foreign infrastructure trust 
beneficiary certificates in accordance with foreign laws and regulations in a foreign 
country; 
(3)-3 Own investment units mean investment securities owned by an investment corporation 
that is an issuer of such investment securities; 
(4) The Asset Securitization Act means the Act on Securitization of Assets (Act No. 105 of 
1998); 
(4)-2 Listed infrastructure funds mean the infrastructure funds listed on the Exchange; 
(4)-3 Listed foreign infrastructure funds mean the foreign infrastructure funds listed on the 
Exchange; 
(4)-4 Listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates mean the foreign 
infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates listed on the Exchange; 
(5) Listed country funds mean country funds listed on the Exchange; 
(6) Continuously held stocks, etc. mean those referred to in the following a. and b. 
a. Domestic stocks or foreign stocks which have been continuously held since before they 
became stocks listed on a domestic financial instruments exchange (excluding those 
issued by a company listed on the specified financial instruments exchange markets; the 
same shall apply hereinafter in this rule) or stocks listed or continuously traded on a 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc., and that are currently listed or continuously 
traded; 
b. Preferred stocks, etc., subscription warrant securities, or corporate bonds with 
subscription warrants issued by the issuer of the stock referred to in the above a., as well 
as stocks listed on a domestic financial instruments exchange or listed or continuously 
traded on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. that are acquired by exercising 
subscription warrants pertaining to said subscription warrant securities or subscription 
warrants attached to said corporate bonds. 
(6)-2 Listed domestic infrastructure funds mean the domestic infrastructure funds listed on the 
Exchange; 
(7) Listed Real Estate Investment Trust Securities mean real estate investment trust securities 
listed on the Exchange. 
(8) Listed Venture Funds mean venture funds listed on the Exchange. 
(9) Trust Company, etc. means a trust company, etc. specified in Article 3 of the Investment 
Trust Act (including, in cases of a trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment 
trust pertaining to beneficiary certificates of an investment trust managed without 
instructions from the settlor, an entity who has been entrusted by such trust company, etc. 
with part of the authorities in relation to investment trust asset management of an 
investment trust managed without instructions from the settlor); 
(9)-2 Trustees mean entities referred to in the following a. through c. 
a. In cases where domestic infrastructure funds fall under beneficiary certificates of an 
investment trust, a trust company, etc.; 
b. In cases where foreign infrastructure funds fall under beneficiary certificates of a foreign 
investment trust, a corporation that has been established in accordance with foreign laws 
and regulations in a foreign country and that is similar to a trust company, etc.; and 
c. In cases where foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary certificates whose entrusted 
securities are foreign infrastructure funds that fall under beneficiary certificates of foreign 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
187 
investment trusts, a corporation that has been established in accordance with foreign laws 
and regulations in a foreign country and that is similar to a trust company, etc., pertaining 
to foreign infrastructure funds that comprise entrusted securities pertaining to said 
beneficiary certificates. 
(9)-3 New investment unit subscription warrant securities mean new investment unit 
subscription warrant securities prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 18 of the Investment Trust 
Act; 
(9)-4 Valid infrastructure investment asset means infrastructure investment assets that comply 
with the requirements specified by the Enforcement Rules;  
(9)-5 Domestic infrastructure fund means beneficiary certificates of the investment trust 
referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act or investment securities referred 
to in Item (11) of the same paragraph that are for managing funds of investors as 
investments primarily in infrastructure assets, etc.; 
(10) Real estate means assets referred to in Article 37, Paragraph 3, Item (2), (i), (ii), and (v) 
of the Investment Corporation Accounting Order or real estate other than these which falls 
under the provisions of Article 3, Paragraph 3 of the Order for Enforcement of the Act on 
Investment Trusts and Investment Corporations (limited to equipment installed with the 
expectation of being used together with a building specifically designed for installing and 
operating computers and data communications devices for the purpose of data processing, 
or equipment installed with the expectation of being used together with another building), 
or those which are prescribed in Article 16-2, Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2 of the Financial 
Statements Regulation as leasing these assets; 
(11) Real estate-related assets mean assets referred to in the following a. through g. 
a. Equity interest in investment pertaining to an agreement in which the funds invested by 
one of the parties to the agreement and managed by the other party exceed half of the 
overall value of real estate investment assets, in which the other party manages an 
amount exceeding half of the value of real estate investment assets, and in which the 
profit arising from such management is distributed; 
b. Preferred equity investment securities prescribed in the Act on Securitization of Assets 
(limited to those for which an amount exceeding a half of the value of assets acquired 
by such special purpose company during the course of business pertaining to 
securitization of assets is managed as investment in real estates, etc.); 
c. Beneficiary certificates (limited to those for which an amount exceeding a half of the 
investment trust assets of such investment trust is managed as investment in real estates, 
etc.); 
d. Investment securities (limited to those for which an amount exceeding a half of the assets 
held for management by such investment corporation is managed for investment in real 
estates, etc.); 
e. Beneficiary certificates of a special purpose trust prescribed in the Asset Securitization 
Act (limited to those for which an amount exceeding a half of the trust assets of such 
special purpose trust is managed as investment in real estates, etc.); and 
f. Rights based on foreign laws and regulations or securities issued by a foreign entity 
which have the nature of rights or securities referred to in the above a. through e. 
g. Out of shares issued by a corporation that aims to carry out trading referred to in Article 
193, Paragraph 1, Items (3) through (5) of the Investment Trust Act and are obtained by 
an investment corporation pursuant to the provisions of Article 194, Paragraph 2 of the 
same Act, those specified by the Enforcement Rules (excluding those referred to in h. 
of the following item.); 
(12) Real estate, etc. means assets referred to in the following a. through h. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
188 
a. Real estate; 
b. Leasehold rights of real estate; 
c. Superficies; 
d. Easement; 
e. Assets prescribed in Article 37, Paragraph 3, Item (2), Sub-item (vi) of the Investment 
Corporate Accounting Regulations; 
f. Beneficiary right to a trust to which the assets referred to in the preceding a. through e. 
are trusted (excluding those falling under real estate-related assets); and 
g. Rights against a foreign entity which have the nature of the rights referred to in the 
preceding f. 
h. Out of shares issued by a corporation that aims to carry out trading referred to in Article 
193, Paragraph 1, Items (3) through (5) of the Investment Trust Act and are obtained by 
an investment corporation pursuant to the provisions of Article 194, Paragraph 2 of the 
same Act, those specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(13) Real estate investment trust securities mean beneficiary certificates of the investment 
trust referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (10) of the Act, or investment securities 
referred to in Item (11) of the same paragraph, whose purpose is to manage funds of 
investors as investment primarily in real estates, etc.; 
(14) Venture funds mean investment securities referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 1, Item (11) 
of the Act, whose purpose is to manage funds of investors as investment primarily in 
unlisted stocks, etc. or continuously held stocks, etc. (including the portion of assets related 
to unlisted stocks, etc. that corresponds to unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held stocks, 
etc.; the same shall apply hereinafter in this rule); 
(15) Unlisted stocks mean domestic stocks or foreign stocks other than stocks listed on a 
domestic financial instruments exchange, or stocks listed or continuously traded on a 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
(16) Unlisted stocks, etc. mean unlisted stocks, or preferred stocks, etc., subscription warrant 
securities, or bonds with warrants issued by an issuer of unlisted stocks; 
(17) Assets related to unlisted stocks, etc. mean assets referred to in the following a. through 
e. 
a. Equity interest in investment pertaining to an agreement in which one of the parties to 
the agreement contributes funds to be managed by the other party for investment 
primarily in unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held stocks, etc., in which the other 
party manages the funds invested for investment primarily in unlisted stocks, etc. and 
continuously held stocks, etc., and in which the profit arising from such management is 
distributed; 
b. Equity interest in contribution related to a limited partnership agreement for investment 
prescribed in Article 3 of the LPS Act (limited to those where contributors jointly invest 
for the purpose of acquiring and holding unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held 
stocks, etc., and such contributed assets are managed for investment primarily in 
unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held stocks, etc.); 
c. Beneficiary certificates (limited to those for which investment trust assets of an 
investment trust are managed for investment primarily in unlisted stocks, etc. and 
continuously held stocks, etc.) 
d. Investment securities (limited to those for which assets held by an investment 
corporation for the purpose of management are managed for investment primarily in 
unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held stocks, etc.); 
e. Rights based on foreign laws and regulations or securities issued by a foreign entity 
which have the nature of rights or securities referred to in the above a. through d. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
189 
(18) Unlisted stocks, etc. rating institution mean an entity which issues ratings of unlisted 
stocks, etc. and assets related to unlisted stocks, etc. as its business; 
(19) Current assets, etc. mean assets prescribed in Article 37, Paragraph 3, Item (1), Sub-items 
(i) through (iii) and Sub-items (v) through (viii) and Item (4), Sub-item (iv) of the same 
paragraph of the Investment Corporation Accounting Rules (limited to consumption tax 
receivables in the case of assets prescribed in Item (1), (viii) of the same paragraph ) and 
beneficiary rights of a trust in which such assets are trusted (excluding those falling under 
securities). 
 
Chapter 2 
Real Estate Investment Trust Securities 
 
Rule 1201-2.  Real Estate Investment Trust Security Initial Listing Application 
1. Initial listing of a real estate investment trust security shall, in accordance with the 
classification of a security referred to in each of the following items, be made upon 
application of an entity specified in each of such items: 
(1) Investment security: 
An investment corporation, which is an issuer of such investment security, and an asset 
management company which is entrusted with the business pertaining to management of 
its assets; 
(2) Beneficiary certificate of a trustor-instructed investment trust: 
An investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment trust 
pertaining to such beneficiary certificate, and a trust company which is its trustee, etc.; 
and 
(3) Beneficiary certificate of a non-trustor-instructed investment trust: 
A trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to such 
beneficiary certificate, etc. 
2. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made falls under Rule 1207, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2) or Item (3), its initial listing application may be made before the 
establishment of an issuer, limited to after the resolution of a general investors meeting of 
pertaining to a consolidation-type merger. In this case an initial listing application shall be 
made by an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security that carries out such consolidation-type merger and an asset management company 
which is expected to be entrusted with the business pertaining to the management of the assets 
of an investment corporation which becomes an issuer of a real estate investment trust 
security pertaining to the initial listing application.  
3. In cases where a real estate investment trust security is not initially listed within one (1) year 
counting from the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding 
two paragraphs, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of a real estate investment trust security pertaining to an initial listing 
application shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Rules 1205 through 1207. 
 
Rule 1202.  Preliminary Application 
1. An entity (excluding an entity to whom the provisions of Rule 1207 apply) who intends to 
make an application for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security may make a 
preliminary application by submitting an "Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application" 
that contains such matters as the planned day for making an initial listing application and 
other matters, and documents prepared in a manner equivalent to documents necessary for 
an initial listing application after a day which is three months prior to the day on which such 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
190 
initial listing application will be made. 
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial listing 
application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs" shall be "the date when the 
initial listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following 
rule", and "said initial listing application" shall be "said preliminary application and any 
initial listing application which has been made within a year counting from the date of said 
preliminary application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange shall make examination as to whether it has the likelihood of meeting the 
provisions of Rule 1205 and Rule 1206.4. The provisions of Rule 1204, Paragraph 5 shall be 
applied mutatis mutandis to the examination defined in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 1203.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a real estate investment trust security pertaining to an initial listing 
application, an entity specified in each item of Rule 1201-2, Paragraph 1 shall submit a 
"Listing Agreement for a Real Estate Investment Trust Security" predetermined by the 
Exchange as prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The listing agreement as in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the listing 
date of a real estate investment trust security pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of a 
real estate investment trust security pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 1204.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity who intends to make an application for initial listing of a real estate investment 
trust security shall submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the 
Exchange and a "Written Oath Pertaining to Initial Listing Application" predetermined by 
the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. A "Report Concerning the Management System of an Issuer, etc. of a Real Estate Investment 
Trust Security" and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to 
the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph; 
provided, however, that out of such documents, for those specified in the Enforcement Rules, 
it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by the Exchange on a case-
by-case basis. 
3. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 1201-2, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time 
of the initial listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a 
case by case basis), out of the attached documents specified by the preceding paragraph, will 
suffice, if they are submitted immediately after submission becomes possible.  
4. Where an issuer of a security for which an initial listing application is made, out of the entities 
who have made an application for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security, gives 
notification or submits notice concerning offering or secondary distribution of a security to 
the Prime Minister, etc. during the period after the corresponding date from a year before to 
the end of the business period or the computation period immediately prior to the initial 
listing application day and before the day on which listing is made, or where it falls under 
any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, it shall, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules, submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
5. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request an initial listing 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
191 
applicant of a real estate investment trust security to submit an informational report or 
materials in addition to the documents prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or 
to provide cooperation in listing examination. 
6. Where the Exchange approves listing of a real estate investment trust security pertaining to 
an initial listing application, an entity who has made an application for initial listing of a real 
estate investment trust security shall agree that the Exchange makes documents specified by 
the Enforcement Rules available for public inspection, out of the documents submitted 
pursuant to the provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs, before and after the listing 
(including after such entity who has made an initial listing application becomes an issuer of 
a listed real estate investment trust security). 
 
Rule 1205.   Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing examination of a real estate investment trust security shall be carried out on a real estate 
investment trust security that meets each of the following items. In this case, details of each 
such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) In accordance with the classification of a security for which an initial listing application is 
made referred to in the following a. through c., an entity specified in such a. through c. shall 
be a member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General Incorporated 
Association):  
   a. Investment security: 
An asset management company entrusted with business pertaining to management of the 
assets of an investment corporation; 
   b. Beneficiary certificate of a trustor-instructed investment trust: 
An investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment trust; and 
   c. Beneficiary certificate of a non-trustor-instructed investment trust: 
A trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust. 
(2) A security for which an initial listing application is made shall meet the following a. through 
o.: 
a. The ratio of the amount of real estate, etc. to the total amount of assets under 
management, etc. shall be expected to reach 70% or more; 
b. The ratio of the total amount of real estate, etc., real estate-related assets and current 
assets to the total amount of assets under management, etc. shall be expected to reach 
95% or more by the time of listing; 
c. Deleted.; 
   d. The number of listed investment units or the number of listed beneficiary rights shall 
be expected to reach 4,000 or more by the time of listing; 
   e. The total net assets shall be expected to reach JPY 1 billion or more by the time of 
listing; 
   f. The total assets shall be expected to reach JPY 5 billion or more by the time of listing; 
   g. The number of investment units calculated by adding the number of own investment 
units (excluding the number of own investment units to be disposed in cases where a 
resolution to dispose own investment units has been made (meaning a resolution 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 80, Paragraph 4 of the Investment Trust Act 
pertaining to disposal of own investment units; the same shall apply hereinafter.)) to the 
total number of the investment units held by major investors (meaning the top ten 
investors in descending order of investment units held; the same shall apply hereinafter) 
or the total number of units of beneficiary rights held by major beneficiaries (meaning 
the top ten beneficiaries in descending order of beneficiary rights held; the same shall 
apply hereinafter) shall be expected to fall below 75% of the number of listed investment 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
192 
units or the number of listed beneficiary rights by the time of listing; 
   h. The number of investors excluding the major investors and an issuer of such initial 
listing application security in cases where such issuer owns investment units (excluding 
cases where a resolution to dispose own investment units with respect to all own 
investment units has been made) or the number of beneficiaries excluding the major 
beneficiaries shall be expected to reach 1,000 or more by the time of listing; 
   i. The following (a) and (b) are satisfied: 
(a) No false statement shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. which contain or 
make reference to financial statements, etc. for each business period (limited to the 
period after an issuer of such investment security was established; the same shall apply 
in this i.) or each computation period (limited to the period after the commencement 
day of a trust agreement period; the same shall apply hereinafter in this i.) or interim 
financial statements, etc. for each business period or each computation period which 
ended in the last two years ("last" years are counted from the end of the base business 
period or the base computation period (meaning the most recent business period or 
computation period for which financial statements, etc. are presented in the financial 
information section of the annual securities report, etc.; the same shall apply 
hereinafter.) pertaining to a security for which an initial listing application is made; 
and 
(b) An audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each business period or each 
computation period ending within the last two years or an interim audit report attached 
to interim financial statements, etc. for a business period or a computation period 
which ended in the last year shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or a "qualified 
opinion with exceptions", or an "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. 
provide useful information" or a "qualified opinion with exceptions" by certified public 
accountants, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where 
the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
   j. A certificate of incorporation of an investment corporation or basic terms and conditions 
of a trust applied to an investment trust states that no refund of investment units shall be 
made upon demand from investors or no cancellation shall be made during a trust 
agreement period upon demand of beneficiaries; 
   k. The period prescribed as a business period or a computation period in the certificate of 
incorporation of an investment corporation or basic terms and conditions  of an 
investment trust shall be six months or longer; 
   l. Where an issue for which an initial listing application is made shall, or shall be expected 
to be, handled in the book-entry transfer operations of a designated transfer institution; 
   m. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is an investment security, 
an administrator of the investor register as prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item 
(8) of the Investment Trust Act (limited to that conducts administrative works relating to 
the investor register) shall be approved by the Exchange as an organization as specified 
by the Enforcement Rules; 
   n. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a beneficiary certificate, 
basic terms and conditions of an investment trust states that additional trust shall not be 
made to such investment trust except where offering is made by submitting a security 
registration statement pursuant to the provisions of laws; and 
   o. Where a security for which an initial listing application is made is a beneficiary certificate 
of a trustor-instructed investment trust, basic terms and conditions of an investment trust 
shall not state that it is a securities investment trust. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
193 
Rule 1206.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a real estate investment trust security for which an initial listing 
application is made shall be carried out as to whether or not it complies with each of the 
following items: 
(1) An entity who has applied for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security is in 
a status where disclosure of information concerning such real estate investment trust 
security may be carried out in appropriate manner; 
(2) An entity who has applied for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security is in   
a status to be able to carry out asset management, etc. in a sound manner; 
(3) Distribution of money or profit pertaining to a security for which an initial listing 
application is made is expected to continue after listing; and 
(4) In addition to the above, the listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the 
public interest or the protection of investors. 
2. Examination concerning whether or not matters referred to in each item of the preceding 
paragraph are satisfied shall be carried out on the basis of initial listing application documents 
concerning a listed real estate investment trust security (meaning documents submitted by an 
entity who has applied for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 1204) and inquires, etc. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination defined in the preceding paragraph shall be 
prescribed by the guidelines for listing examination, etc. 
 
Rule 1207.  Technical Listing 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two rules, in the cases referred to in each of 
the following items, where an application is made without delay for initial listing of a real 
estate investment trust security issued by an investment corporation surviving after such 
merger or an investment corporation created by such merger, listing examination shall be 
carried out pursuant to the criteria specified in each of such items:  
(1) Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security is merged through an absorption-type merger by an investment corporation 
which is an issuer of an unlisted real estate investment trust security, and such listed real 
estate investment trust security is to be delisted as a result of a dissolution caused by such 
absorption-type merger:  
a. Rule 1205, Item (1), and Item (2), a., b. and d. and i. through m. of the same rule and 
each item of Paragraph 1 of the preceding rule shall be satisfied. In this case, with 
respect to application of the provisions of Rule 1205, Item (2), i., "a security for which 
an initial listing application is made" in the same i. shall be "such unlisted real estate 
investment trust security"; 
b. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of such listed real estate 
investment trust security falls under the first sentence of Rule 1218, Paragraph 2, Item 
(4), an investment corporation which is an issuer of such security for which such initial 
listing application is made is unlikely to fall under the first sentence of the same item 
by the time of the initial listing; and 
c. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of such listed real estate 
investment trust security falls under the first part of Rule 1218, Paragraph 2, Item (5), 
an investment corporation which is an issuer of a security for which such initial listing 
application is made is unlikely to fall under the first sentence of the same item by the 
time of the initial listing; 
(2) Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security carries out a consolidation-type merger with an investment corporation which is 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
194 
an issuer of another listed real estate investment trust security, and such listed real estate 
investment trust security is to be delisted as a result of a dissolution caused by such 
consolidation-type merger: 
a. Rule 1205, Item (1), and Item (2), d. and j. through m. of the same rule and each item 
of Paragraph 1 of the preceding rule shall be satisfied; 
b. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of such listed real estate 
investment trust security falls under the first sentence of Rule 1218, Paragraph 2, Item 
(1), an investment corporation which is an issuer of a security for which such initial 
listing application is made is unlikely to fall under the first sentence of the same item 
by the time of the initial listing; 
c. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of such listed real estate 
investment trust security falls under the first sentence of Rule 1218, Paragraph 2, Item 
(2), an investment corporation which is an issuer of a security for which such initial 
listing application is made is unlikely to fall under the first sentence of the same item 
by the time of the initial listing; and 
d. b. and c. of the preceding item shall be satisfied; and 
(3) Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security carries out a consolidation-type merger with an investment corporation which is 
an issuer of an unlisted real estate investment trust security, and such listed real estate 
investment trust security is to be delisted as a result of a dissolution caused by such 
consolidation-type merger: 
    Item (1), a. through c. shall be satisfied. 
2. A listing date of an investment security which is to be listed pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph shall be the day on which an absorption-type merger or a consolidation-
type merger becomes effective; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases 
where listing is impossible or difficult on such day because of the timing of initial listing 
application, etc. 
 
Rule 1208.  Public Offering, Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing 
Necessary matters concerning a public offering (meaning a new issue of a real estate investment 
trust security by general offering; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) or secondary 
distribution (excluding a public offering or secondary distribution of a security to which the 
provisions of the preceding rule apply concerning listing examination and a public offering or 
secondary distribution of a real estate investment trust security listed on another financial 
instruments exchange in Japan) carried out during the period from the day on which an 
application for initial listing of a real estate investment trust security is made to the day 
preceding the listing date and public offering at the time of the establishment of an investment 
corporation (limited to cases where an application for initial listing of a real estate investment 
trust security to be issued by such investment corporation is promptly made after the 
establishment) and an issuance of a real estate investment trust security carried out before listing 
(excluding an issuance pertaining to a security to which the provisions of the preceding rule 
apply concerning listing examination and an issuance pertaining to a real estate investment trust 
security listed on another financial instruments exchange in Japan) shall be as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules.  
 
Rule 1209.  Listing Application for New Real Estate Investment Trust Securities 
1. Where an application is made for listing of a real estate investment trust security pertaining 
to investment units or beneficiary rights newly issued by an investment corporation or an 
investment trust pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security, or new investment 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
195 
unit subscription warrant securities newly issued by an investment corporation pertaining to 
a listed real estate investment trust security that is not listed on the Exchange, any of entities 
specified in items of Rule 1201-2, Paragraph 1 (hereinafter referred to as an "issuer, etc. of a 
listed real estate investment trust security") shall submit a "Security Listing Application 
Form" predetermined by the Exchange ; provided, however, that in the cases where mattes 
to be described in the "Security Listing Application Form" are included in the disclosure of 
information pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1213 or documents submitted to the Exchange 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1214, the Exchange shall deem that the listing application 
is being made by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where any of an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security newly issues a 
real estate investment trust security, it shall, as a general rule, on a case-by-case basis, take 
procedures for listing application as in the preceding paragraph prior to issue. 
3. In cases where new investment unit subscription warrant securities are not initially listed 
within one (1) year counting from the date when the initial listing application is made 
pursuant to the Paragraph 1, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Where the Exchange lists such real estate investment trust security or new investment unit 
subscription warrant securities upon listing application as in Paragraph 1, it shall amend or 
add descriptions contained in the listed securities ledger on the listing date. 
 
Rule 1210.  Listing of New Real Estate Investment Trust Securities 
Where a listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding rule, the 
Exchange shall, as a general rule, approve listing as referred to in each of the following items. 
In this case, the handling shall be as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) A real estate investment trust security specified by the Enforcement Rules, out of the real 
estate investment trust securities pertaining to investment units or beneficial rights newly 
issued by an investment corporation or an investment trust pertaining to a listed real estate 
investment trust security, shall be listed by when issued transactions; 
(2) Where the relation of rights of a real estate investment trust security pertaining to investment 
units or beneficial rights to be newly issued by an investment corporation or an investment 
trust pertaining a listed real estate investment trust security is different from that of a listed 
real estate investment trust security and it falls under the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules, such real estate investment trust security shall be listed when it is 
issued; and 
(3) In addition to cases where the preceding two items are satisfied, where a real estate 
investment trust security pertaining to investment units or beneficial rights to be newly 
issued shall be listed as an addition to a listed real estate investment trust security, when it 
is issued (in the case where the relation of rights of a real estate investment trust security is 
different from that of a listed real estate investment trust security, when both have the same 
relation of rights). 
 
Rule 1211.  Listing of New Investment Unit Subscription Warrant Securities 
1. Where new investment unit subscription warrant securities for which a listing application has 
been made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1209 are aimed at a listed real estate investment 
trust security, and criteria referred to in the following items are met, the Exchange shall 
approve such listing. 
(1) New investment unit subscription warrant securities for which a listing application is 
made meet criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(2) A listed investment corporation that is an issuer of new investment unit subscription 
warrant securities (meaning an investment corporation that is an issuer of listed real estate 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
196 
investment trust securities; the same shall apply here in this chapter) has performed either 
of the procedures in the following a. or b. (excluding cases where such listed investment 
corporation has concluded an agreement prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 6, Item (3) of 
the Act on such new investment unit subscription warrant securities (referred to as "the 
commitment-type case" in this rule)). 
a. Examination by a trading participant on rationality of issuance of investment units; 
b. Confirmation of investors' intent by means of a resolution at a general investors meeting 
(3) The management performance and financial condition of the listed investment corporation 
that is the issuer of the new investment unit subscription warrant security do not fall under 
either of the following a. or b. (excluding commitment-type cases). 
a. The amount of net income is zero or negative in the last business period (meaning the 
business period covered by the most recently submitted annual securities report. etc.; 
the same shall apply in the following b.). 
b. The total amount of net assets is less than JPY 500 million on the last day of the last 
business period.  
(4) The listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the public interest or 
investor protection. 
2. Where a new investment unit subscription warrant security is to be listed pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, an entity who has made such listing application shall 
submit a "Written Statement of Assurance" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination defined in Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by the 
Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
4. Other necessary matters concerning listing of new investment unit subscription warrant 
securities shall be prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1212.  Alteration Listing Application 
1. In addition to cases prescribed in Rule 1209, where an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate 
investment trust security intends to alter an name, quantity, etc. of such listed real estate 
investment trust security, any of issuers, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security 
shall make such an alternation by submitting a "Security Alteration Listing Application 
Form" predetermined by the Exchange; provided, however, that in the cases where mattes to 
be described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" are included in the 
disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of the following rule or documents 
submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1214, the Exchange shall deem 
that the application is being made for such an alteration by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where the Exchange makes alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on the listing 
date. 
 
Rule 1213.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Real Estate Investment Trust 
Securities 
1. An issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall carry out timely disclosure 
of information concerning such listed real estate investment trust security, said issuer, etc. of 
a listed real estate investment trust security, and assets under management, etc. of the listed 
real estate investment trust security. 
2. Timely disclosure of information concerning a listed real estate investment trust security or 
an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall be carried out pursuant to 
the provisions of the following items in accordance with the classification of a listed real 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
197 
estate investment trust security referred to in each item:  
(1) An investment security: 
Where an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security falls under any of the 
following a. through d. (excluding those which the Exchange deems as matters whose 
effect on investors’ investment decisions is of minor significance, such as cases which 
fall under the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules), it shall disclose the details 
immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
a. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment 
trust security has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following 
(a) through (p) (including cases where it decides not to carry out matters pertaining to 
said decision): 
(a) Split or reverse split of investment units; 
(b) Additional issuance or secondary distribution of investment units; 
(c) Offering of investment corporation bonds or borrowing of funds; 
(d) Merger; 
(e) Change to the certificate of incorporation or dissolution; 
(f) Application for delisting of a real estate investment trust security to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan; 
(g) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation 
proceedings; 
(h) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(i) That administrative work relating to the investor register will not be entrusted to an 
institution approved by the Exchange; 
(j) Conclusion of an entrustment contract pertaining to asset management, or 
cancellation of such a contract; 
(k)  Distribution of money; 
(l) Request prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 6, Item (4) of the Act, or Article 167, 
Paragraph 5, Item (5) of the Act; 
(m) 
Acquisition of own investment units pursuant to Article 80-2, Paragraph 1 of 
the Investment Trust Act (including cases where the provisions apply by replacing 
terms pursuant to the provisions of Article 80-5, Paragraph 2 of the same Act) 
(n)  Gratis allotment of new investment unit subscription warrants; 
(o)  Deduction of all or part of losses from the total amount of capital contribution, etc. 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 136, Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act 
(p) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (o), important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed real estate investment trust 
security or its investment corporation which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions;  
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (t) has occurred to an 
investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security: 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 214 of the 
Investment Trust Act; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting of a specified security (meaning a specified security 
prescribed in Article 163, Paragraph 1 of the Act; the same shall apply hereinafter in 
this (b)) or options pertaining to a specified security; 
(c) That the amount of net assets is likely to fall below the base net asset value specified 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
198 
in Article 124, Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(d) Notice of cancellation of registration pursuant to the provisions of Article 215, 
Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(e) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body 
which decides business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, 
etc. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
a.); 
(f) An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached 
audit report or interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet 
Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm is not expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister, 
etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 
1 of the Act or has not been submitted within said period (except cases where 
disclosure has been made that said report is unlikely to be submitted within said 
period), was submitted after such disclosure had been made, or approval has been 
received from the Prime Minister, etc. for to the extension of said period; 
(g) That a notice of canceling an entrustment agreement of administrative work relating 
to the investor register is received, an issuer is unlikely to entrust work relating to 
the investor register to an institution approved by the Exchange, or an issuer has 
decided that it will not entrust administrative work relating to the investor register to 
an institution approved by the Exchange; 
(h) Damage arising from a disaster or damage which occurs in the course of business 
execution; 
(i) Filing of a lawsuit pertaining to property rights, issuance of a judgement on such a 
lawsuit by a court, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial 
decision; 
(j) Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of asset 
management or other disciplinary actions equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such 
a petition, or completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition 
without a judicial decision; 
(k) Cancellation of the registration referred to in Article 187 of the Investment Trust Act 
pursuant to the provision of Article 216, Paragraph 1 of the Act, or other disciplinary 
actions equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency based on laws and 
regulations; 
(l) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings 
by an entity other than said investment corporation such as a creditor; 
(m) Dishonor, etc.; 
(n)  As a result of a dishonor, etc., a petition for commencement of bankruptcy 
procedures, etc., or a fact equivalent to these having occurred with respect to a debtor 
or a main debtor with guarantee obligations, there is a possibility of default on 
accounts receivable, loans, or other receivables from said debtor or on the right to 
obtain reimbursement against such main debtor on exercising such guarantee 
obligations; 
(o) Suspension of trade with a main business partner (meaning a business partner 
specified in Article 29-2-3, Item (7) of the Enforcement Order) or suspension of trade 
with two or more business partners for the same reason or in the same period; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
199 
(p) Exemption of obligations or extension of a repayment deadline (limited to an 
extension that the Exchange deems equivalent to exemption of obligations) by a 
creditor, or assumption or fulfillment of obligations by a third party; 
(q) Discovery of resources; 
(r) Deleted.  
(s) Demand by investors for ceasing issuance of investment securities 
(t) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (s), important facts 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust security 
or its investment corporation which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions;  
c. Where an asset management company entrusted with business pertaining to 
management of assets of an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real 
investment trust security has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the 
following (a) through (n) (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters 
pertaining to said decision): 
(a) Application for delisting of a real estate investment trust security to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan; 
(b) Merger of said asset management company; 
(c) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, 
or reorganization proceedings of said asset management company; 
(d) Dissolution of said asset management company (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
(e) Discontinuation or abolishment of the business pertaining to asset management 
entrusted by said investment corporation; 
(f) Discontinuation or abolishment of whole or part of the asset management entrusted 
by said investment corporation; 
(g) Company split of said asset management company; 
(h) Transfer or receipt of the whole or part of the business of such asset management 
company; 
(i) Cancellation of the entrustment contact pertaining to asset management that has 
been concluded with said investment corporation; 
(j)  Share exchange of said asset management company; 
(k)  Share transfer of said asset management company; 
(k)-2 Share delivery of said asset management company; 
(l) Commencement of new asset management based on entrustment from said 
investment corporation; 
(m) 
Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made by said asset 
management company to the Prime Minister, etc. in accordance with the Act; or 
(n) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (m), important 
matters related to operation, administration or assets or a listed real investment trust 
security or its asset management company which have a significant impact on 
investors’ investment decisions; or 
d. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (l) has occurred to an 
asset management company entrusted with business pertaining to management of 
assets of an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment 
trust security:    
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 of the Act; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1218, Paragraph 1, Item (1), b.); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) and the preceding (b), authorization, approval 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
200 
or disciplinary actions by an administrative agency in accordance with laws and 
regulations; 
(d) Change in a specified related corporation (meaning a specified related corporation 
prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 5 of the Act; 
(e) Change to a major shareholder; 
(f) Filing of a lawsuit for a claim relating to property rights pertaining to the 
management of assets entrusted by the investment corporation, issuance of a 
judgment on such a lawsuit, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part 
without a judicial decision; 
(g) Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of asset 
management entrusted by such investment corporation or other disciplinary action 
equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a petition, or completion of procedures 
in whole or part pertaining to such a petition without a judicial decision; 
(h) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by an entity other than said 
asset management company, etc. such as a creditor; 
(i) Dishonor, etc.; 
(j) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to a specified 
related corporation; 
(k) The special controlling shareholder (where this is a corporation, the body that 
decides its business execution) has decided to demand the sale of shares, etc. 
pertaining to said investment corporation or has decided not to demand the sale of 
shares, etc. pertaining to said decision (limited to cases where said decision was 
made public as prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 4 of the Act); 
(l) Other than facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (k), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust security or its 
asset management company which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions;  
(2) A beneficiary certificate of a trustor-instructed investment trust: 
An issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall disclose the details 
immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules if it falls under any of 
the following a. through d. (excluding, in cases of matters referred to in a., those which the 
Exchange deems as matters whose effect on investors’ investment decisions is of minor 
significance, such as cases which fall under the criteria specified by the Enforcement 
Rules): 
a. Where an investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment 
trust pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security has decided to carry out 
any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through (p) (including cases where 
it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision): 
(a) Split or reverse split of beneficiary certificates; 
(b) Additional trust or secondary distribution; 
(c) Borrowing of funds necessary for an investment trust; 
(d) Change to the basic terms and conditions of a trust or cancellation of an investment 
trust agreement; 
(e) Application for delisting of a real estate investment trust security to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan; 
(f) Merger of said investment trust management company; 
(g) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings of said investment trust 
management company; 
(h) Dissolution of said investment trust management company (excluding dissolutions 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
201 
caused by merger); 
(i) Discontinuation of the financial instruments business of said investment trust 
management company; 
(j) Ceasing to be an entity which carries out investment management business by 
completing an alteration registration specified in Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
(k) Company split of said investment trust management company (limited to cases 
where the whole business is inherited); 
(l) Transfer of the whole business of said investment trust management company; 
(m) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made by said investment 
trust management company to an administrative agency in accordance with laws 
and regulations; 
(n) Matters referred to in (h) under a. of the preceding item; 
(o) A decision that said issue will not be subject to book-entry transfer operations 
conducted by a designated book-entry transfer institution; or 
(p) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (o), important 
matters related to operation, administration or assets of a listed real estate 
investment trust security or its investment trust management company which have 
a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (e) has occurred to an 
investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment trust 
pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security: 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 of the Act; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1218, Paragraph 1, Item (2), a.); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) and the preceding (b), authorization, approval 
or disciplinary actions by an administrative agency in accordance with laws and 
regulations; 
(d) Matters referred to in b., (e) or (f) of the preceding item; or 
(e) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (d), important facts 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust 
security or its investment management company which have a significant impact 
on investors’ investment decisions; 
c. Where a trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to a 
listed real estate investment trust security has decided to carry out any of the matters 
referred to in the following (a) or (b) (including cases where it has decided not to carry 
out matters pertaining to said decision): 
(a) Application for delisting of a real estate investment trust security to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan; or 
(b) Other than the matter referred to in (a), important matters concerning the operation, 
administration or assets of a listed real estate investment trust security or its trust 
company, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
or 
d. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) or (b) has occurred to a trust 
company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to a listed real estate 
investment trust security: 
(a) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1218, Paragraph 1, Item (2), b.); or 
(b) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a), important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust security or its 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
202 
trust company, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; and 
(3) A beneficial certificate of a non-trustor-instructed investment trust: 
 An issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall disclose the details 
immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, where it falls under 
the following a. or b.: 
a. Where a trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to a 
listed real estate investment trust security has decided to carry out any of the matters 
referred to in the following (a) or (b) (including cases where it has decided not to carry 
out matters pertaining to said decision):  
(a) Matters referred to in (a) through (e) or (n) through (o) of the preceding a.; or 
(b) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a), important matters related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust security or its 
trust company, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; or 
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (c) has occurred to a 
trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to a listed 
beneficiary trust security: 
(a) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in 
Rule 1218, Paragraph 1, Item (3)); 
(b) Matters referred to in Item (1), b., (e) or (f); or 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) or the preceding (b), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed real investment trust security or its 
trust company, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions. 
3. Regarding timely disclosure of information of assets under management, etc. of a listed real 
estate investment trust security, where an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust 
security falls under any of the following items (regarding matters referred to in Item (1) and 
facts referred to in Item (2), excluding cases falling under those which the Exchange deems 
as matters whose effect on investors’ investment decisions is of minor significance, such as 
cases which fall under the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules), it shall disclose the 
details immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where an asset management company, etc. (meaning, where the listed real estate 
investment trust security is an investment security, the asset management company 
entrusted with business pertaining to management of assets of the investment corporation 
which is the issuer of said investment security; where it is a beneficial certificate of a 
trustor-instructed investment trust, the investment trust management company which is 
the trustor of the investment trust pertaining to said beneficial certificate; and where it is 
a beneficial certificate of a non-trustor-instructed investment trust, the trust company, etc. 
which is the trustee of the investment trust pertaining to said beneficial certificate; the 
same shall apply in Item (3)) has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in 
the following a. through c. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters 
pertaining to said decision): 
a. Transfer or receipt of an asset pertaining to assets under management, etc.; 
b. Leasing or cancellation of leasing of assets under management, etc. (including real 
estate that is the object of leasehold rights, superficies, or easement, real estate 
included in trust assets of the trust prescribed in Rule 1201, Item (12), f, and real estate 
that underlies real estate-related assets);  
c. Other than the matters referred to in the preceding a. and b., important matters 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
203 
concerning assets under management, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions; 
(2) Where any fact referred to in the following a. though c. has occurred: 
a. Damage arising from a disaster or damage which occurs in the course of business 
execution that pertains to assets under management, etc.; 
b. Cancellation of lease of assets under management, etc. (excluding cases where an asset 
management company, etc. has decided to cancel such lease of assets under 
management, etc., and discloses details of such cancellation pursuant to the provision 
of b. of the preceding item) 
c. Other than the facts referred to in the preceding a. and b., important facts concerning 
assets under management, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ 
investment decisions; 
(3) Where an asset management company, etc. carries out a trade referred to in each item of 
Article 13, Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act (including cases where it is applied 
mutatis mutandis to Article 54 of the same Act) or a trade referred to in Article 203, 
Paragraph 2 of the same Act (limited to cases where it is necessary to issue a document 
to a beneficiary of an investment trust pursuant to these provisions); 
(4) Where details (including information specified by the Enforcement Rules) of financial 
results of a fund for a business period or a computation period or an interim business 
period or an interim computation period with respect to a listed real estate investment 
trust security are settled; or 
(5) Where there occurs a difference (limited those falling under the criteria specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as matters which have a material impact on investors' investment 
decisions) in the forecast value newly calculated by an issuer of such listed real estate 
investment trust security or financial results for such business period or such computation 
period compared to the last published forecast value (where there is no such value, the 
published actual value for the previous business period or the previous computation 
period) with respect to operating income, ordinary income, net income, distribution of 
money, or distribution of revenue of a fund pertaining to a listed real estate investment 
trust security. 
4. The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination, etc. pertaining 
to disclosure of information of an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security. 
5. An issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall submit a "Report 
Concerning Management System, etc. of an Issuer, etc. of a Listed Real Estate Investment 
Trust Security" predetermined by the Exchange within three months after a business period 
or a computation period pertaining to such listed real estate investment trust security. In this 
case, such issuer, etc. shall agree that the Exchange makes such report available for public 
inspection. 
6. In addition to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, in cases where an issuer, etc. of a 
listed real estate investment trust security falls under any of each item below and if a change 
occurs in the details of the "Report Concerning the Management System of an Issuer, etc. of 
a Real Estate Investment Trust Security" due to the matters prescribed in each such item, it 
shall submit the "Report Concerning the Management System of an Issuer, etc. of a Real 
Estate Investment Trust Security" after the change without delay. In this case, said issuer, etc. 
shall agree that the Exchange makes said report after the change for public inspection. 
(1) Where a change occurs in an asset management company entrusted with business 
pertaining to management of the assets of a listed investment corporation; 
(2) Where an asset management company entrusted with business pertaining to management 
of the assets of a listed investment corporation conducts merger or other acts specified in the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
204 
Enforcement Rules (referred to as the "merger, etc." in Rule 1218, Paragraph 1, Item (1), b. 
(d) and (e))  
(3) Where a change occurs in a parent company of an asset management company entrusted 
with business pertaining to management of the assets of a listed investment corporation. 
7. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to 414, and Rule 416 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to disclosure pursuant to the provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs 
and the provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to an issuer, 
etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security, respectively. 
 
Rule 1214.  Submission of Documents, etc.  
1. Submission of documents, etc. made by an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust 
security shall be carried out pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. In addition to the preceding paragraph, an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust 
security shall without delay submit documents which the Exchange requests for a good 
reason, and shall agree that the Exchange makes documents deemed necessary by it available 
for public inspection, out of such documents. 
 
Rule 1215.  Effective Date, etc. of Splits of Investment Units or Beneficiary Rights 
1. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security or an investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment trust 
(limited to beneficiary certificates of a trustor-instructed investment trust) or a trust company, 
etc. which is a trustee (limited to beneficiary certificates of a non-trustor-instructed 
investment trust) pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security carries out a split 
of an investment unit or beneficiary right pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust 
security, it shall designate the day following the record date for determining an entity who 
receives a right pertaining to such split as an effective date of such split. 
2. In cases prescribed in the preceding paragraph, where an investment corporation which is an 
issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security or an investment trust management 
company which is a trustor of an investment trust (limited to beneficiary certificates of a 
trustor-instructed investment trust) or a trust company, etc. which is a trustee (limited to 
beneficiary certificates of a non-trustor-instructed investment trust) pertaining to a listed real 
estate investment trust security is required to satisfy certain requirements such as in a case 
where a resolution of a general investors meeting or a resolution in writing by beneficiaries 
is necessary, it shall set a day that falls on or after the third day (excluding non-business days) 
counting from the day on which such split is determined to be conducted as a record date for 
fixing the entities eligible for rights pertaining to such split.  
 
Rule 1216.  Code of Conduct Concerning Listed Real Estate Investment Trust Securities 
1. An issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall not conduct a gratis 
allotment of new investment unit subscription, or a split or reverse split of investment units 
or beneficiary rights pertaining to the listed real estate investment trust security which is 
likely to disrupt the secondary market or infringe upon the interests of unit-holders or 
beneficiaries. 
2. The provisions of Rule 442 and Rule 449 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the entity 
specified in Rule 1201-2, Paragraph 1, Item (1), and the provisions of Rule 443 and Rule 
450 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the issuer of a listed real estate investment trust 
security, etc. 
 
Rule 1217.  Ensuring Effectiveness 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
205 
The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring effectiveness of a listed real estate investment trust security. 
 
Rule 1218.  Delisting Criteria  
1. The delisting criteria pertaining to an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security 
shall be set forth pursuant to the provisions of each of the following items in accordance with 
the classification of a listed real estate investment trust security referred to in each such item. 
In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Investment security: 
The delisting criteria shall be set forth pursuant to the provisions of the following a. or b.: 
a. Where an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment 
trust security falls under the following (a) or (b), the Exchange shall delist such listed 
real estate investment trust security: 
(a) Where an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security falls under any of 
reasons for dissolution referred to in Article 143 of the Investment Trust Act; or 
(b) Where an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security has fallen into a 
status where it requires bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings 
pursuant to laws and regulations or a situation equivalent thereto; or 
b. Where an investment management company entrusted with business pertaining to 
management of assets of an investment corporation which is an issuer of a listed real 
estate investment trust security falls under any of the following (a) through (g), such 
listed real estate investment trust security shall be delisted; provided, however, that the 
same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise: 
(a) Where registration of financial instruments business expires pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 50-2, Paragraph 2 of the Act; 
(b) Where registration of financial instruments business is cancelled pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 52, Paragraph 1 or Article 54 of the Act; 
(c) Where an asset management company ceases to be a member of the Investment 
Trusts Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association); 
(d) Where an asset management company ceases to be an asset management company 
entrusted with business pertaining to management of assets of such investment 
corporation (excluding cases due to the merger, etc.);  
(e) Where the merger, etc. is conducted (excluding the cases where such merger, etc. is 
conducted within such asset management company only or only between such asset 
management company and an asset management company which is currently 
entrusted with business pertaining to asset management of other listed investment 
corporation ), and the Exchange deems that the business operating system pertaining 
to management of assets of such investment corporation before conducting such 
merger, etc. is not substantially survived after conducting such merger, etc.  
(f) Where a change occurs in a parent company of said asset management company and 
the Exchange deems that the business operating system pertaining to management 
of assets of such investment corporation before occurrence of such a change is not 
substantially survived after occurrence of such a change; or 
(g) Where an asset management company ceases to be an entity which carries out 
investment management business by receiving an alteration registration prescribed 
in Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
(2) Beneficial certificate of a trustor-instructed investment trust: 
The delisting criteria shall be set forth pursuant to the provisions of the following a. or 
b.: 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
206 
a. Where an investment trust management company which is a trustor of an investment 
trust pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security falls under any of the 
following (a) through (d), such listed real estate investment trust security shall be 
delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the business 
which has been carried out by an investment trust management company, which is a 
trustor of an investment trust pertaining to such real estate investment trust security, is 
taken over by another investment trust management company and, in addition, such 
other investment trust management company submits a "Listing Agreement for a Real 
Estate Investment Trust Security" and where such real estate investment trust security 
complies with each item of Rule 1206, Paragraph 1: 
(a) Where registration of financial instruments business expires pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 50-2, Paragraph 2 of the Act; 
(b) Where registration of financial instruments business is cancelled pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 52, Paragraph 1 or Article 54 of the Act; 
(c) Where an investment trust management company ceases to be a member of the 
Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association); or 
(d) Where an investment trust management company ceases to be an entity which 
carries out investment management business by receiving an alteration registration 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; or 
b. Where a business license or authorization concerning the operation of a trust business   
is revoked from a trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust 
pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security, such listed real estate 
investment trust security shall be delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not 
apply to cases where the business which has been carried out by a trust company, etc. 
which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to such listed real estate investment 
trust security is taken over by another trust company, etc. and such other trust company, 
etc. submits a "Listing Agreement for a Real Estate Investment Trust Security" and 
where such real estate investment trust security complies with each item of Rule 1206, 
Paragraph 1; and 
(3) Beneficiary certificate of a non-trustor-instructed type investment trust: 
Where a trust company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to a listed 
real estate investment trust security falls under any of the following a. through c., such 
listed real estate investment trust security shall be delisted; provided, however, that the 
same shall not apply to cases where the business which has been carried out by a trust 
company, etc. which is a trustee of an investment trust pertaining to such listed real estate 
investment trust security is taken over by another trust company, etc. and such other trust 
company, etc. submits a "Listing Agreement for a Real Estate Investment Trust Security" 
and where such real estate investment trust security complies with each item of Rule 1206, 
Paragraph 1: 
a. Where a business license or authorization concerning the operation of a trust business 
is revoked from a trust company, etc.; 
b. Where a trust company, etc. ceases to be a member of the Investment Trusts 
Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association); or 
    c. Where a trust company, etc. ceases to be a trustee of such investment trust. 
2. Where a security pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security falls under any of 
the following items, the security shall be delisted. In this case, details of each such item shall 
be provided by the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where the ratio of the amount of real estate, etc. to the total amount of assets under 
management, etc. has become less than 70% as of the end of every business period or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
207 
every computation period pertaining to a listed real estate investment trust security, and 
fails to reach 70% or higher within a year; 
(2) Where the ratio of the total amount of real estate, etc., real estate-related assets and current 
assets to the total amount of assets under management, etc. has become less than 95% as 
of the end of every business period or every computation period pertaining to a listed real 
estate investment trust security, and fails to reach 95% or higher within a year; 
(3) Where distribution of money or distribution of revenue pertaining to a business period or 
a computation period has not been made, and distribution of money or distribution of 
revenue is not made within a year (excluding cases specified by the Enforcement Rules); 
(4) Where the total net assets have become less than JPY 500 million as of the end of every 
business period or every computation period pertaining to a listed real estate investment 
trust security, and fails to reach JPY 500 million or more within a year; 
(5) Where the total assets have become less than JPY 2.5 billion as of the end of every 
business period or every computation period pertaining to a listed real estate investment 
trust security, and fails to reach JPY 2.5 billion or more within a year; 
(6) Where the number of listed investment units (excluding the number of own investment 
units (excluding investment units to be disposed in cases where a resolution to dispose 
own investment units has been made)) or the number of units of listed beneficiary rights 
is less than 4,000; 
(7) Where trading volume for one (1) year prior to the end of December of every year is less 
than 20 units; 
(8) Delay in submission of an annual securities report or a semiannual securities report: 
Where an annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit 
report or an interim audit report as in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order 
on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an audit 
firm is attached is not submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within a month after a period 
specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act passes (within 
three months in the event that such submission delay is due to reasons not attributable to 
an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security such as an act of providence); 
(9) Where the following a. or b. is met:  
a. Where there is a false statement in an annual securities report, etc. pertaining to a listed 
real estate investment trust security and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult 
to maintain order in the market if the REIT is not delisted immediately; or 
 b. Regarding an audit report attached to financial statements, etc. or an interim audit 
report attached to interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to a listed real estate 
investment trust security, where certified public accountants or audit firms or those 
corresponding to these state an "adverse opinion" or a "disclaimer of opinion" 
(excluding cases specified by the Enforcement Rules; the same shall apply in this b.) 
in an audit report and an "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. do not 
provide useful information" or a "disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit report and, 
in addition, the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the 
market if the REIT is not delisted immediately; 
(10) Where an entity who had entered into a listing agreement pertaining to a listed real estate 
investment trust security has committed a material breach of the listing agreement as 
prescribed by the Enforcement Rules where an entity has committed a material breach as 
to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
1204, Paragraph 1, or where an entity that should enter into a listing agreement ceases to 
be a party to the listing agreement; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where such entity (excluding an investment corporation) falls under any of the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
208 
proviso of Paragraph 1, Item (1), b. , the proviso of Item (2), a. of the same paragraph, 
the proviso of b. of the same item or the proviso of Item (3) of the same paragraph; 
(11) Concerning to a listed real estate investment trust security, where a refund of investment 
units requested by an investor or cancellation during a trust agreement period requested 
by a beneficiary becomes possible due to a change in a certificate of incorporation  of 
an investment corporation or basic terms and conditions of an investment trust; 
(12) Where a business period or a computation period becomes less than six months due to 
a change in a certificate of incorporation of an investment corporation or basic terms and 
conditions of an investment trust; 
(13) Where such issue ceases to be handled in the book-entry transfer operation of the 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(14) Where a listed real estate investment trust security is an investment security, and where 
administrative works relating to the investor register have come not to be entrusted to an 
institution approved by the Exchange as specified by Rule 1205, Item (2), m. or it has 
become certain that it will not be so entrusted; 
(15) Where a listed real estate investment trust security is a beneficiary certificate, and where 
it becomes possible to carry out an additional trust pertaining to such investment trust 
due to a change in basic terms and conditions of an investment trust in addition to cases 
where offering is made by submitting a security registration statement pursuant to the 
provisions of the Act; 
(16) Where a listed real estate investment trust security is a beneficiary certificate, and where 
an investment trust agreement pertaining to such beneficiary certificate terminates; 
(17) Where a listed real estate investment trust security is a beneficiary certificate of a trustor-
instructed investment trust, and where a change is made in basic terms and conditions of 
an investment trust which will contain a statement that it is a securities investment trust; 
or 
(18) Where it is found that the issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security has 
relationships prescribed in the Enforcement Rules as those in which the listed company 
is involved with anti-social forces, and when the Exchange deems such situation to have 
considerably damaged investors’ or beneficiaries’ trust in the market; 
(19) In addition to each of the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that the delisting 
of such security is appropriate for the public interest or the protection of investors. 
3. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination pertaining to 
delisting pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 1219.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed real estate investment trust security to request certified public 
accountants, etc. who perform audit certifications for financial statements, etc. or interim 
financial statements, etc. (including those who have previously been said certified public 
accountants, etc.) to provide explanations or other information regarding a particular issue, 
the issuer, etc. of the listed real estate investment trust security shall cooperate in this process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to an issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust 
security for the purpose of requiring such certified public accountants, etc. to provide 
explanations or other information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the provisions of 
the preceding paragraph, the issuer, etc. of a listed real estate investment trust security shall 
each promptly submit a document stating that they agree to said certified public accountants, 
etc. providing said explanations or other information. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
209 
 
Rule 1220.  Delisting Date 
Details of a delisting date in cases where delisting of a listed real estate investment trust security 
is decided shall be provided by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1221.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed real estate investment trust security is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed real estate investment trust security as a security under supervision to 
make investors aware of that fact pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1222.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed real estate investment trust security is decided to be delisted, the Exchange may 
designate such listed real estate investment trust security as a security to be delisted for a period 
until the day before the delisting date pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules to 
make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1223.  Fees Relating to Listing, etc. 
An issuer of a real estate investment trust security and new investment unit subscription warrant 
securities pertaining to an initial listing application, and an issuer of a listed real estate 
investment trust security shall pay a listing examination fee, a preliminary examination fee, an 
examination fee pertaining to delisting, an initial listing fee, an additional listing fee at the time 
of additional issuance or additional trust, an annual listing fee and other fees relating to listing 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1224.  Succession at the Time of Technical Listing 
In application of the provisions prescribed by the Enforcement Rules to an investment 
corporation which is an issuer of a listed real estate investment trust security in cases where an 
investment corporation which is an issuer of such listed real estate investment trust security is 
an investment corporation listed upon the application of the provisions of Rule 1207 (including 
a listed real estate trust security issued by said investment corporation and an asset management 
company which was entrusted with operations of asset management for said investment 
corporation; hereinafter the same in this rule), the investment corporation which is an issuer of 
said listed real estate investment trust security shall be treated by deeming that it is the same 
investment corporation as that the corporation delisted in accompaniment of the application of 
the provisions of the same rule; provided, however, the same shall not apply if the Exchange 
deems it inappropriate.  
 
Rule 1225.  Application Mutatis Mutandis 
The provisions of Rule 424, Rule 429, Rule 606 and Rule 610 shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to a real estate investment trust security. 
 
 
Chapter 3 
Venture Funds 
 
Rule 1301.  Initial Listing Application of Venture Fund 
1. An initial listing of a venture fund shall be based on application of an investment corporation 
that is the issuer of such venture fund (hereinafter referred to as a "venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation") and an asset management company that has been entrusted with 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
210 
operations pertaining to management of such assets by such investment corporation 
(hereinafter referred to as a "venture fund asset management company"). 
2. In cases where an initial listing application issue falls under Rule 1307, Paragraph 1, Item 
(2) or Item (3), even before the establishment of the issuer, an initial listing application may 
be made, provided that it is done after a resolution of a general investors meeting pertaining 
to a consolidation-type merger. In this case, the initial listing application shall be made by a 
venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to the listed venture fund conducting 
such consolidation type merger and by a venture fund asset management company pertaining 
to an initial listing application. 
3. In cases where a venture fund is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from the date 
when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, said 
initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination on venture funds pertaining to initial listing application shall be conducted 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 1305 through 1307. 
 
Rule 1302.  Preliminary Application 
1. An venture fund-issuing investment corporation and a venture fund asset management 
company which intend to make an application for initial listing (excluding an entity to whom 
the provisions of Rule 1307 are applied) may make a preliminary application by submitting 
an "Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application" that contains such matters as the 
planned day for making an initial listing application and other matters, and documents 
prepared in a manner equivalent to documents required for an initial listing application after 
a day which is three months prior to the day on which such initial listing application will be 
made. 
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial listing 
application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs" shall be "the date when the 
preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following 
rule", and "said initial listing application" shall be "said preliminary application and any 
initial listing application which has been made within a year counting from the date of said 
preliminary application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange shall conduct examination as to whether it has the likelihood of satisfying the 
provisions of Rule 1305 and Rule 1306. 
4. The provisions of Rule 1304, Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
examination referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 1303.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a venture fund pertaining to an initial listing application, a venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation and a venture fund asset management company 
pertaining to an initial listing application (hereinafter referred to as a "venture fund initial 
listing applicant") shall submit a "Listing Agreement for a Venture Fund" predetermined by 
the Exchange as prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The listing agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the 
listing date of a venture fund pertaining to an initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the issue in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of a 
venture fund pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
211
Rule 1304.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. A venture fund initial listing applicant that intends to make an application for initial listing 
of a venture fund shall submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined 
by the Exchange and a "Written Oath Pertaining to Initial Listing Application" predetermined 
by the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
2. A "report on the management system, product characteristics, and assessment methods, etc. 
of unlisted stocks, etc. pertaining to venture funds" and other documents specified by the 
Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial Listing Application Form" 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph; provided, however, that out of such documents, for 
those specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed sufficient to submit them by a 
date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
3. Where an initial listing application is made before establishment pursuant to the provisions 
of Rule 1301, Paragraph 2, documents which cannot be submitted at the time of the initial 
listing application (limited to those deemed inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case 
basis), out of the attached documents specified by the preceding paragraph, will suffice, if 
they are submitted immediately after submission becomes possible.  
4. Where a venture fund initial listing applicant gives notification or submits notice concerning 
offering or secondary distribution regarding an initial listing issue to the Prime Minister, etc. 
during the period after the day one (1) year prior to the end of the business period immediately 
prior to the initial listing application day and before the day on which listing is made, or 
where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, such applicant shall 
submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
5. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request a venture fund 
initial listing applicant to submit informational reports or materials in addition to the 
documents prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in 
listing examination. 
6. Where the Exchange approves listing of a venture fund, the venture fund initial listing 
applicant shall agree that the Exchange makes documents specified by the Enforcement 
Rules available for public inspection, out of the documents submitted pursuant to the 
provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs, before and after the listing (including after 
the venture fund initial listing applicant become a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation and a venture fund asset management company pertaining to the listed venture 
fund). 
 
Rule 1305.   Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing examination of a venture fund shall be carried out on a venture fund that meets each of 
the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) A venture fund asset management company shall be a member of the Investment Trusts 
Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association). 
(2) An initial listing application issue shall meet the following a. through h.: 
a. Ratio of assets under management, etc.: 
  The ratio of the monetary amount specified by the Enforcement Rules as the amount of 
investment in unlisted stocks, etc. and continuously held stocks, etc. to the total amount 
of assets under management, etc. (hereinafter referred to as the "unlisted stocks 
investment ratio") is expected to exceed 50%; 
b. Number of listed investment units: 
  The number of listed investment units shall be expected to reach 2,000 units or more by 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
212 
the time of listing; 
c. Total net assets: 
  The total net assets shall be expected to reach JPY 3 billion or more by the time of listing; 
d. Distribution of investment units: 
  The following (a) and (b) are satisfied: 
  (a) The number of investment units calculated by adding the number of own investment 
units (excluding the number of own investment units to be disposed in cases where a 
resolution to dispose own investment units has been made) to the total number of 
investment units held by major investors shall be expected to reach 80% or less of the 
number of listed investment units by the time of listing;  
  (b) The number of investors holding one (1) or more investment unit, excluding major 
investors and the venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to the initial 
listing application in the case where said corporation owns investment units (excluding 
cases where a resolution has been made to dispose of all the own investment units held), 
shall be expected to reach 300 or more by the time of listing; 
e. False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
  The following (a) and (b) are satisfied: 
  (a) No false statement shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. which contain 
or make reference to financial statements, etc. for each business period ended in the last 
two years (limited to the period after the venture fund-issuing investment corporation 
pertaining to such initial listing application was established; the same shall apply in this 
e.) or interim financial statements, etc. for each such business period; 
  (b) An audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each business period ended 
within the last two years or an interim audit report attached to interim financial statements, 
etc. for a business period ended in the last year shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or 
a "qualified opinion with exceptions," or an "opinion that the interim financial statements, 
etc. provide useful information" or a "qualified opinion with exceptions" by certified 
public accountants, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases 
where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
f. Matters contained in the certificate of incorporation, etc.: 
  The certificate of incorporation of a venture fund-issuing investment corporation 
pertaining to initial listing application (including a document similar thereto in case of 
(d) (ii)) shall contain the matters referred to in the follow (a) through (f): 
  (a) That the unlisted stocks investment ratio shall be higher than 50% as a general rule; 
  (b) That assets other than unlisted stocks, etc., assets related to unlisted stocks, etc., and 
continuously held stocks, etc. are limited to those listed in each item of Article 19, 
Paragraph 3 of the the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation, current assets, etc., 
and rights and other assets that are aimed at reducing risks such as risk of losses due to 
price fluctuations of the assets under management, etc. and pertain to transactions that 
are objectively recognized to reduce the risk of such losses or other risks; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify 
otherwise; 
  (c) Matters referred to in the following (i) or (ii) 
(i) Investments in a specific investment destination shall not exceed 10% of total net 
assets as of the time of acquisition; or 
(ii) For unlisted stocks, etc. or assets related to unlisted stocks, etc., investments in a 
specific investment destination shall not exceed 15% of total net assets as of the time 
of acquisition, and for other assets, investments in a specific investment destination 
shall not exceed 10% of total net assets as of the time of acquisition; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
213 
  (d) Matters referred to in the following (i) or (ii) 
(i) Borrowing of funds shall not be conducted and investment corporation bonds shall 
not be offered; or 
(ii) The certificate of incorporation or documents similar thereto of investment 
corporation shall specify a management policy of ratio of interest-bearing liabilities 
to total assets be, in principle, 20% or less, a risk management policy for borrowing 
funds or issuing investment corporation bonds, and matters concerning purposes of 
borrowing funds or issuing investment corporation bonds, their maximum amounts 
and the usage of them; 
  (e) No refund of investment units shall be made upon demand from investors; 
  (f) The period defined as a business period shall be at least six months; 
g. Handling by the designated book-entry transfer institution: 
  It shall be required that the relevant venture fund is subject to the book-entry transfer 
operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or is likely to be so by the time 
of listing; 
   h. Establishment of an administrator of the investor register: 
  It shall be required that the administrator of the investor register prescribed in Article 166, 
Paragraph 2, Item (8) of the Investment Trust Act is approved by the Exchange as an 
organization as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1306.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a venture fund shall be carried out as to whether or not it satisfies 
each of the following items: 
(1) Rating of unlisted stocks, etc. and assets related to unlisted stocks, etc. which are assets 
under management, etc. can be carried out in an appropriate manner; 
(2) A venture fund initial listing applicant is in a state where disclosure of information 
concerning such venture fund can be carried out in an appropriate manner; 
(3) A venture fund initial listing applicant is in a state where asset management, etc. can be 
carried out in a sound manner; and 
(4) In addition to the above, the listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the 
public interest or investor protection. 
2. Examination concerning whether or not matters referred to in each item of the preceding 
paragraph are satisfied shall be carried out on the basis of initial listing application documents 
concerning a venture fund (meaning documents submitted by the venture fund initial listing 
applicant pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1304) and inquires. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination referred to in Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by 
the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
 
Rule 1307.  Technical Listing 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two rules, in the cases referred to in each of 
the following items, where an application is made without delay for initial listing of a venture 
fund issued by an investment corporation surviving after a merger or an investment 
corporation created by a merger, listing examination shall be carried out pursuant to the 
criteria specified in each of such items:  
(1) Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund 
is merged through an absorption-type merger by a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to an unlisted venture fund, and such listed venture fund is to be 
delisted as a result of a dissolution due to such absorption-type merger:  
Rule 1305, Item (1) and Item (2), a., b., and e. through h. shall be satisfied; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
214 
(2) Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund 
carries out a consolidation-type merger with a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to another listed venture fund, and such listed venture fund is to 
be delisted as a result of a dissolution due to such consolidation-type merger: 
a. Rule 1305, Item (1), and Item (2), b. and f. through h. shall be satisfied; and 
b. Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to such listed venture 
fund falls under the first sentence of Rule 1318, Paragraph 2, Item (1), the venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to initial listing application is unlikely 
to fall under the first sentence of the same item by the time of the initial listing. 
 (3) Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund 
carries out a consolidation-type merger with a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to an unlisted venture fund, and such listed venture fund is to be 
delisted as a result of a dissolution due to such consolidation-type merger: 
a. Rule 1305, Item (1), and Item (2), a. and b. and f. through h. shall be satisfied; and 
b. Such unlisted venture fund shall satisfy Rule 1305, Item (2), e. In this case "venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to an initial listing application" in e. 
(a) shall be read "venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to an unlisted 
venture fund" when applying the provisions of e (a). 
2. The listing date of a venture fund which is to be listed pursuant to the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph shall be the day on which an absorption-type merger or a consolidation-
type merger becomes effective; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases 
where listing is impossible or difficult on such day because of the timing of initial listing 
application, etc. 
 
Rule 1308.  Public Offering or Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing 
Necessary matters concerning (i) a public offering (meaning a new issuance of a venture 
fund by general offering; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) or secondary 
distribution (excluding a public offering or secondary distribution of an issue to which the 
provisions of the preceding rule apply concerning listing examination and a public offering 
or secondary distribution of a venture fund listed on another financial instruments exchange 
in Japan) carried out during the period from the day on which an application for initial listing 
of a venture fund is made to the day preceding the listing date, public offering at the time of 
the establishment of an investment corporation (limited to cases where an application for 
initial listing of a venture fund to be issued by such investment corporation is promptly made 
after the establishment) and an issuance of a venture fund carried out before listing 
(excluding an issuance pertaining to an issue to which the provisions of the preceding rule 
apply concerning listing examination and an issuance pertaining to a venture fund listed on 
another financial instruments exchange in Japan) shall be as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules.  
 
Rule 1309.  Listing Application for New Venture Funds and Securities 
1. Where making an application for listing a new venture fund to be issued by a venture fund-
issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund or a new investment unit 
subscription warrant security that is to be issued by a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund and is not listed on the Exchange, the venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation or the venture fund asset management company 
pertaining to such listed venture fund shall submit a "Security Listing Application Form" 
predetermined by the Exchange; provided, however, that in the cases where matters to be 
described in the "Security Listing Application Form" are included in the disclosure of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
215 
information pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1312 or documents submitted to the Exchange 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1313, the Exchange shall deem that the listing application 
is being made by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation or a venture fund asset management 
company pertaining to a listed venture fund, it shall, as a general rule, take procedures for 
listing application referred to in the preceding paragraph prior to such issuance each time. 
3. In cases where a new investment unit subscription warrant security is not initially listed 
within one (1) year counting from the date when the initial listing application is made 
pursuant to Paragraph 1, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Where the Exchange lists a new venture fund or new investment unit subscription warrant 
security specified in Paragraph 1 based on a listing application referred to in the same 
paragraph, it shall amend or add to the information contained in the listed securities ledger 
on the listing date. 
 
Rule 1310.  Listing of New Venture Funds 
Where a listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding rule, the 
Exchange shall, as a general rule, approve listing as referred to in each of the following items. 
In this case, the handling shall be as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Where a venture fund to be newly issued by a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund has rights different from those of a listed 
venture fund, and meets criteria specified by the Enforcement rules, such venture fund 
shall be listed when it is issued. 
(2) Other than the case in the preceding item, a venture fund to be newly issued shall be listed 
in addition to a listed venture fund when it is issued (in cases of a venture fund having 
rights different from those of a listed venture fund, when such rights become the same). 
 
Rule 1310-2.  Listing of New Investment Unit Subscription Warrant Securities 
1. Where a new investment unit subscription warrant security for which a listing application 
has been made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1309 has a listed venture fund as its 
objective, the Exchange shall approve listing if the new investment unit subscription warrant 
security meets the criteria referred to in each of the following items. 
(1) The new investment unit subscription warrant security for which the listing application 
has been made meets the criteria prescribed by the Enforcement Rules; 
(2) The venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund that 
is the issuer of the new investment unit subscription warrant security has implemented 
either of the procedures in a. or b. (excluding cases where said investment corporation 
has entered into an agreement prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 6, Item (3) of the Act 
for the new investment unit subscription warrant security (hereinafter referred to as a 
"commitment-type case" in this rule)) 
a. Examination pertaining to reasonableness of issuance of investment units by a 
trading participant; 
b. Confirmation of investors' intent by means such as a resolution at a general investors 
meeting 
(3) The management performance and financial condition of the venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund that is the issuer of the new 
investment unit subscription warrant security do not fall under either of the following a. 
or b. (excluding commitment-type cases). 
a. Net income is not positive in the last business period (meaning the business period 
covered by the most recently submitted annual securities report. etc.; the same shall 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
216 
apply in the following b.); or 
b. Total net assets did not reach JPY 50 million at the end of the last business period. 
(4) The listing is not deemed inappropriate in terms of public interest or investor protection. 
2. Where a new investment unit subscription warrant security is to be listed pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, the entity who has made said listing application shall 
submit a "Written Statement of Assurance" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
3. Necessary matters concerning the listing examination described in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
4. Other necessary matters concerning listing of new investment unit subscription warrant 
securities shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1311.  Alteration Listing Application 
1. In addition to cases prescribed in Rule 1309, where a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation and a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture 
fund (hereinafter referred to as the " listed venture fund issuer and manager") intend to alter 
the name, quantity, etc. of such venture fund, either entity of the listed venture fund issuer 
and manager shall make an application for such an alteration by submitting a "Security 
Alteration Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange; provided, however, 
that in the cases where mattes to be described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application 
Form" are included in the disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of the 
following rule or documents submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
1313, the Exchange shall deem that the listing application is being made by said disclosure 
or submission. 
2. Where the Exchange makes alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on the listing 
date. 
 
Rule 1312.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Venture Funds 
1. A listed venture fund issuer and manager shall carry out timely disclosure of information 
concerning such listed venture fund, listed venture fund issuer and manager, and assets under 
management, etc. of a listed venture fund. 
2. Where a listed venture fund issuer and manager fall under any of the following items 
(excluding those which the Exchange deems as matters whose impact on investors’ 
investment decisions is of minor significance, such as cases which fall under the criteria 
specified by the Enforcement Rules), it shall disclose details immediately pursuant to the 
provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund 
has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through r. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision): 
a. Split or reverse split of investment units; 
b. Additional issuance or secondary distribution of investment units; 
b-2. Offering of investment corporation bonds or borrowing of funds; 
c. Merger; 
d. Change to the certificate of incorporation or dissolution; 
e. Application for delisting of a venture fund to a financial instruments exchange in Japan; 
f. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings; 
g. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
217 
reports or semiannual securities reports; 
h. Change in the unlisted stocks, etc. rating institution; 
i. Change in officers; 
j. Distribution of money; 
k. Change in the number of units per investment unit; 
l. That administrative work relating to the investor register will not be entrusted to an 
institution approved by the Exchange; 
m. Conclusion of an entrustment contract pertaining to asset management, or cancellation 
of such a contract; 
n. Request prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 6, Item (4) of the Act, or Article 167, 
Paragraph 5, Item (5) of the Act; 
o. Acquisition of own investment units pursuant to Article 80-2, Paragraph 1 of the 
Investment Trust Act (including cases where the provisions apply by replacing terms 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 80-5, Paragraph 2 of the same Act); 
p. Gratis allotment of new investment unit subscription warrants; 
q. Deduction of all or part of losses from the total amount of capital contribution, etc. 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 136, Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act; or 
r. Other than the matters referred to in the preceding a. through q., important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed venture fund or its venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions;  
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through u. has occurred to a venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund: 
a. Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 214 of the Investment 
Trust Act; 
b. A fact that causes the delisting of a specified security (meaning a specified security 
prescribed in Article 163, Paragraph 1 of the Act; the same shall apply in this b.) or 
options pertaining to a specified security; 
c. That the amount of net assets is likely to fall below the base net asset value specified in 
Article 124, Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act; 
d. Notice of cancellation of registration pursuant to the provisions of Article 215, Paragraph 
2 of the Investment Trust Act; 
e. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body which 
decides business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, etc. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of g. of the 
preceding item); 
f. Change to the unlisted stocks, etc. rating institution (excluding cases where the body 
which decides business execution has decided to change the unlisted stocks, etc. rating 
institution (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to 
said decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of h. of the 
preceding item) 
g. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached audit 
report or an interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet 
Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm is not expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. 
within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of 
the Act or has not been submitted within such period (except cases where disclosure 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
218 
has been made that said report is unlikely to be submitted within said period), was 
submitted after such disclosure had been made, or approval has been received from the 
Prime Minister, etc. for the extension of said period; 
h. Request of investors for convocation of general investors meeting 
i. That a notice of canceling an entrustment agreement of administrative work relating to 
the investor register is received, an issuer is unlikely to entrust administrative work 
relating to the investor register to an institution approved by the Exchange, or an issuer 
has decided that it will not entrust administrative work relating to the investor register 
to an institution approved by the Exchange; 
j. Demand by investors for ceasing issuance of investment securities; 
k. Damage arising from a disaster or damage which occurs in the course of business 
execution; 
l. Filing of a lawsuit pertaining to property rights, issuance of a judgment on such a lawsuit 
by a court, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial decision; 
m. Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of asset 
management or other disciplinary actions equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such 
a petition, or completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition 
without a judicial decision; 
n. Cancellation of the registration referred to in Article 187 of the Investment Trust Act 
pursuant to the provision of Article 216, Paragraph 1 of the same Act or other 
disciplinary actions equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency based on 
laws and regulations, or an accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations 
by an administrative agency 
o. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings by 
an entity other than said venture fund-issuing investment corporation such as a creditor 
p. Dishonor, etc. 
q. As a result of a dishonor, etc., a petition for commencement of bankruptcy procedures, 
etc., or a fact equivalent to these having occurred with respect to a debtor or a main 
debtor with guarantee obligations, there is a possibility of default on accounts 
receivable, loans, or other receivables from said debtor or on the right to obtain 
reimbursement against such main debtor on exercising such guarantee obligations; 
r. Suspension of trade with a main business partner (meaning a business partner specified 
in Article 29-2-3, Item (7) of the Enforcement Order) or suspension of trade with two 
or more business partners for the same reason or in the same period; 
s. Exemption of obligations or extension of a repayment deadline (limited to an extension 
that the Exchange deems equivalent to exemption of obligations) by a creditor, or 
assumption or fulfillment of obligations by a third party; 
t. Discovery of resources; or 
u. Other than the facts referred to in the preceding a. through t., important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed venture fund or its venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions;  
(3) Where a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund has 
decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through o. (including 
cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to such decision): 
a. Application for delisting of a venture fund to a financial instruments exchange in Japan; 
b. Merger of said venture fund asset management company; 
c. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings of said venture fund asset management company; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
219 
d. Dissolution of said venture fund asset management company (excluding dissolutions by 
merger); 
e. Discontinuation or abolishment of the business pertaining to asset management entrusted 
by said venture fund-issuing investment corporation; 
f. Discontinuation or abolishment of whole or part of the asset management entrusted by 
said venture fund-issuing investment corporation; 
g. Company split of said venture fund asset management company; 
h. Transfer or receipt of the whole or part of the business of said venture fund asset 
management company; 
h-2. Changes to investment policy or risk management policy; 
i. Cancellation of entrustment contact pertaining to asset management that has been 
concluded with said venture fund-issuing investment corporation; 
j. Share exchange of said venture fund asset management company; 
k. Share transfer of said venture fund asset management company; 
l. Share delivery of said venture fund asset management company; 
m. Commencement of new asset management based on entrustment from said venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation; 
n. Application for authorization or approval, or notification, from said venture fund asset 
management company to an administrative agency pursuant to laws and regulations; 
or 
o. Other than the matters referred to in the preceding a. through n., important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed venture fund or its venture fund asset 
management company which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions. 
(4) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through l. has occurred to a venture 
fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund: 
a. Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 of the Act; 
b. A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in Rule 
1318, Paragraph 1, Item (2)); 
c. Other than the facts referred to in a. and the preceding b., authorization, approval, or 
disciplinary actions by an administrative agency based on laws and regulations or an 
accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations by an administrative agency; 
d. Change in a specified related corporation (meaning a specified related corporation 
prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 5 of the Act; 
e. A change to a major shareholder; 
f. Filing of a lawsuit for a claim relating to property rights pertaining to the management 
of assets entrusted by the venture fund-issuing investment corporation, issuance of a 
judgment on such a lawsuit, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without 
a judicial decision; 
g. Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of business 
pertaining to asset management entrusted by the venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation or other disciplinary action equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a 
petition, or completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition 
without a judicial decision; 
h. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings 
filed by an entity other than the venture fund asset management company pertaining 
to such listed venture fund, such as a creditor; 
i. Dishonor, etc.; 
j. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to a specified related 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
220 
corporation; 
k. A special controlling shareholder (where this is a corporation, the body that determines 
its business execution) has decided to make a demand for share, etc. cash out pertaining 
to the venture fund asset management company or has decided not to make a demand 
for share, etc. cash out pertaining to said decision (limited to cases where said decision 
was made public as prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 4 of the Act); 
l. Other than the facts referred to in the preceding a. through k., important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed venture fund or a venture fund asset 
management company pertaining to a listed venture fund which have a significant 
impact on investors’ investment decisions. 
3. With regard to timely disclosure of information of assets under management, etc. of a listed 
venture fund, where a listed venture fund issuer and manager falls under any of the following 
items (excluding cases of falling under those which the Exchange deems as matters whose 
impact on investors’ investment decisions is of minor significance, such as a case of falling 
under the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules), such listed venture fund issuer and 
manager shall disclose the details immediately pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) Where a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund has 
decided that it will carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through c. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision). 
a. Transfer or receipt of assets pertaining to assets under management, etc.; 
b. Leasing or cancellation of leasing of assets pertaining to assets under management, etc.; 
or 
c. Other than matters referred to in the preceding a. and b., important matters concerning 
assets under management, etc. which have a significant impact on investors' 
investment decision. 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through e. has occurred to assets 
under management, etc. 
a. Where an unlisted stock, etc. is listed on a financial instruments exchange (including 
cases where such listing is postponed or cancelled); 
b. Where a stock, etc. listed on a financial instruments exchange in Japan or a stock, etc. 
listed or continuously traded on a financial instruments exchange in a foreign country 
is delisted, or their registration is cancelled; 
c. Where an issuer of unlisted stocks, etc. or assets related to unlisted stocks, etc. or an 
entity other than such issuer has filed a petition for commencement of bankruptcy 
proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or reorganization proceedings for an issuer of 
an unlisted stock, etc. or assets related to unlisted stocks, etc., or where the 
Enforcement Rules specifies as a state equivalent thereto; 
d. Cancellation of lease of assets under management, etc. (excluding cases where a venture 
fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund has decided to 
cancel such a lease of assets under management, etc. and discloses details of said 
cancellation pursuant to the provisions of b. of the preceding item) or 
e. Other than matters referred to in the preceding a. though d., facts concerning important 
assets under management, etc. which have a significant impact on investors' 
investment decisions. 
4. Where details of financial results of a listed venture fund pertaining to a business period or 
interim business period pertaining to a listed venture fund (including information specified 
by the Enforcement Rules) are fixed, a listed venture fund issuer and manager shall disclose 
such details immediately. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
221 
5. With respect to operating revenue, ordinary profit, net income, or cash distribution pertaining 
to a listed venture fund, if there is an inconsistency (limited to those meeting the criteria 
specified by the Enforcement Regulations as matters that have a material impact on 
investment decisions) between the forecast value that is newly calculated by the venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to said listed venture fund or financial results 
for the current business period and the last published forecast value (where there is no such 
value, the published actual value for the previous business period), the listed venture fund 
issuer and manager shall disclose the details immediately. 
6. A listed venture fund issuer and manager shall disclose matters referred to in each of the 
following items concerning assets under management, etc. once every three months. 
(1)Details of assets under management, etc.; 
(2) Overviews of issuers of unlisted stocks, etc. and assets related to unlisted stocks, etc.; 
(3) The most recent management status and short term-management policy; and 
(4) Reasons for holding and management policy regarding continuously held stocks, etc.; and 
(5) Net asset value per unit of the listed venture fund. 
7. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, if stipulated by the Enforcement 
Rules, a listed venture fund issuer and manager shall disclose matters referred to from Items 
(1) to (4) of the same paragraph on a monthly basis during the period specified in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
8. The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination, etc. on 
disclosure of information of a listed venture fund issuer and manager 
9. A listed venture fund issuer and manager, where any change has been made to a "report on 
the management system, product characteristics, and assessment methods, etc. of unlisted 
stocks, etc. pertaining to venture funds" predetermined by the Exchange, shall submit a 
report after the change without delay. In this case, said issuer, etc. shall agree that the 
Exchange makes said report after the change available for public inspection. 
10. Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, if the details of such change relate to matters 
specified by the Enforcement Rules, the issuer, etc. may submit the report after the change 
within three months counting from the day following the end of a business period containing 
the day when said change was made. However, this shall not apply to cases where any of the 
following items is applicable and such change has been attributable to matters prescribed in 
said items. 
 (1) Where there is a change in a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed 
venture fund; 
(2) Where a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund 
carries out a merger or any other act specified by the Enforcement Rules (a "merger, etc." in 
Rule 1318, Paragraph 1, Item (2), Sub-items c. and d., ); or 
(3) Where there is a change in the parent company of a venture fund asset management 
company pertaining to a listed venture fund. 
11. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to 414, Rule 416 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to disclosure pursuant to the provisions of each of the preceding items. In addition, 
the provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to a listed venture 
fund issuer and manager. 
 
 
Rule 1313.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. Submission of documents, etc. to the Exchange by a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund shall be conducted as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
222 
2. A listed venture fund issuer and manager shall agree that it shall submit documents, other 
than those in the preceding paragraph, which are requested based on justifiable reasons by 
the Exchange without delay and that, out of such documents submitted, the Exchange will 
make documents deemed necessary available for public inspection. 
 
Rule 1314.  Deleted.  
 
Rule 1315.  Effective Day of Investment Unit Split, etc. 
1. Where a listed venture fund issuer and manager conducts an investment unit split pertaining 
to a listed venture fund, they shall set the day following the record date to fix entities 
receiving rights to such split as an effective day of such split. 
2. Where certain requirements such as necessity of resolution by general investors meeting need 
to be satisfied in the case prescribed in the preceding paragraph, a listed venture fund issuer 
and manager shall set a day that falls on or after the third day (excluding non-business days) 
counting from a day on which the split in the preceding paragraph is determined to be 
conducted as a record date for fixing the entities eligible for rights to such split. 
 
Rule 1316.  Code of Conduct concerning Listed Venture Fund 
1. A listed venture fund issuer and manager shall not conduct a gratis allotment of new 
investment unit subscription warrant securities or a split or reverse split of the 
investment unit pertaining to a listed venture fund which is likely to disrupt the 
secondary market or infringe upon investor interests. 
2. The provisions of Rule 442, Rule 443, Rule 449, and Rule 450 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to listed venture fund issuers and managers. 
 
Rule 1317.  Ensuring Effectiveness 
The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring of effectiveness for listed venture funds. 
 
Rule 1318.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where a listed venture fund falls under any of the following items, such venture fund shall 
be delisted. In these cases, handling of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement 
rules. 
(1) Where a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund 
falls under any of the following a. through c., such listed venture fund shall be delisted. 
a. Where such investment corporation falls under reasons for dissolution in accordance 
with laws and regulations; 
b. Where such investment corporation falls into a state where it requires bankruptcy 
proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings pursuant to the provisions of laws or a status 
equivalent thereto; or 
c. Where such investment corporation does not value the unlisted stocks, etc. and assets 
related to unlisted stocks, etc. which are the fund’s assets under management, etc. in 
the manner prescribed in Article 14 of the Rules on the Valuation and Accounting of 
Investment Trust Properties specified by the Investment Trust Association, Japan, in 
order to disclose matters prescribed in Rule 1312, Paragraph 6, Item (5), and has also 
not entrusted the valuation to an unlisted stocks, etc. rating institution. 
(2) Where a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a listed venture fund falls 
under any of the following a. through e., such listed venture fund shall be delisted; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the Enforcement Rules 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
223 
specify otherwise: 
a. Where license, approval, or registration, etc. required for operations pertaining to asset 
management of an investment corporation has expired, been cancelled, or changed, 
and has ceased operations as an asset management company; 
b. Where an asset management company ceases to be a member of the Investment Trusts 
Association, Japan (General Incorporated Association); 
c. Where an asset management company ceases to be a venture fund asset management 
company pertaining to such listed venture fund (excluding cases attributable to a 
merger, etc.); 
d. Where a merger, etc. is conducted (excluding cases where such a merger, etc. is 
conducted within a venture fund asset management company pertaining to said listed 
venture fund only or only between a venture fund asset management company 
pertaining to said listed venture fund and a venture fund asset management company 
pertaining to other listed venture fund), and the Exchange deems that the business 
operating system pertaining to management of assets of a venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation pertaining to said listed venture fund before conducting such a 
merger, etc. is not substantially survived after such a merger, etc. is conducted; or 
e. Where there is a change in the parent company of a venture fund asset management 
company pertaining to said listed venture fund and the Exchange deems that the business 
operating system pertaining to management of assets of a venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation pertaining to said listed venture fund before such a change is not 
substantially survived after such a change; 
2. Where an issue of a listed venture fund falls under any of the following items, such issue 
shall be delisted. Handling of each such item in these cases shall be specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Ratio of assets under management, etc. 
Where the unlisted stocks investment ratio has fallen to or below 50% on the last day of 
the business period of a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed 
venture fund, and then fails to exceed 50% within one (1) year; provided, however, that 
the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise. 
(2) The number of listed investment units (excluding the number of own investment units 
(except the number of own investment units to be disposed of, if such a resolution has 
been made)) is less than 2,000 units. 
(3) Trading volume 
Trading volume for one (1) year prior to the end of December of every year is less than 
60 units. 
(4) Delayed submission of annual securities report, etc. 
An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report or 
an interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order on 
Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm 
is attached is not submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within a month since a period 
specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act has passed 
(within three months in the case where such delayed submission is due to reasons not 
attributable to a venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture 
fund, such as an act of providence,); 
(5) False statement or adverse opinion, etc. 
Where falling under the following a. or b. 
a. False statement is contained in an annual securities report, etc. pertaining to a listed 
venture fund, and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
224 
the market if the venture fund is not delisted immediately; 
b. Concerning an audit report attached to financial statements, etc. or an interim audit report 
attached to interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to a listed venture fund, a 
certified public accountant, etc. state an "adverse opinion" or a "disclaimer of opinion" 
(excluding cases specified by the Enforcement Rules; hereinafter the same in this b.)  
in an audit report, or a "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. do not provide 
useful information" or "disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit report, and the 
Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the market if the venture 
fund is not delisted immediately; 
(6) Breach of listing agreement, etc.: 
Where a listed venture fund issuer and manager have committed a material breach of the 
listing agreement as specified by the Enforcement Rules, where they have committed a 
material breach as to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 1304, Paragraph 1, or where an entity that should conclude a listing 
agreement ceases to be a party to the listing agreement; provided, however, that the same 
shall not apply to cases where a venture fund asset management company pertaining to a 
listed venture fund falls under the proviso of Item (2) of the preceding paragraph; 
(7) Matters contained in the certificate of incorporation, etc.: 
With respect to the certificate of incorporation of a venture fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund (including a document similar thereto in 
case of d. (b)), if any of the changes referred to in the following a. through f. are made: 
a. The provision that the unlisted stocks investment ratio shall, as a general rule, exceed 
50% is deleted; 
b. The provision that assets other than unlisted stocks, etc., assets related to unlisted stocks, 
etc., or continuously held stocks, etc. are limited to those listed to in each item of 
Article 19, Paragraph 3 of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation, current 
assets, etc., and rights and other assets that are aimed at reducing risks such as risk of 
losses due to price fluctuations of the assets under management, etc. and pertain to 
transactions that are objectively recognized to reduce the risk of such losses or other 
risks is deleted; provided, however, that this shall not apply to cases specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; 
c.  Both of following provisions (a) and (b) are deleted. 
(a) Investments in a specific investment destination shall not exceed 10% of total net 
assets as of the time of acquisition; and 
(b) For unlisted stocks, etc. or assets related to unlisted stocks, etc., investments in a 
specific investment destination shall not exceed 15% of total net assets as of the time 
of acquisition, and for other assets, investments in a specific investment destination 
shall not exceed 10% of total net assets as of the time of acquisition; 
d. Both of following provisions (a) and (b) are deleted. 
(a) The provisions that borrowing of funds shall not be conducted and that investment 
corporation bonds shall not be offered; and 
(b) The provisions in the certificate of incorporation or documents similar thereto of 
investment corporation regarding a management policy of ratio of interest-bearing 
liabilities to total assets be, in principle, 20% or less, a risk management policy for 
borrowing funds or issuing investment corporation bonds, and matters concerning 
purposes of borrowing funds or issuing investment corporation bonds, their 
maximum amounts and the usage of them; 
e. Refund of investment units shall be possible upon demand from investors; or 
f. A business period shall be less than six months; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
225 
(8) Handling of borrowing of funds or offering of investment corporation bonds 
In a situation where ratio of interest-bearing liabilities to total assets exceeds 20% as of 
the end of the business period pertaining to a venture fund-issuing investment corporation 
pertaining to a listed venture fund, if the ratio of interest-bearing liabilities to total assets 
fails to fall to or below 20% less within one (1) year; 
(9) Handling by the designated book-entry transfer institution: 
The relevant venture fund ceases to be subject to the book-entry transfer operation of the 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(10) Establishment of an administrator of the investor register, etc.; 
Administrative works concerning the investor register has ceased to be entrusted to the 
institution approved by the Exchange as prescribed in Rule 1305, Item (2), h, or has 
become sure to not be entrusted; 
(11) Influence of anti-social forces 
Where it is revealed that a listed venture fund issuer and manager has relationship 
specified by the Enforcement Rules as being subject to influence of anti-social forces, the 
Exchange recognizes that such fact remarkably undermines investors' confidence in 
market of the Exchange; or  
(12) Other 
Other than the preceding items, the Exchange deems that delisting of such issue is 
appropriate from the viewpoints of the public interest or investor protection. 
3. The examination referred to in Item (1) of the preceding paragraph may be conducted based 
on current documents which are not as of the end of each business period for a venture fund-
issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund, as specified by the 
Exchange, 
4. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination pertaining to 
delisting pursuant to the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs. 
 
Rule 1319.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed venture fund to request certified public accountants, etc. who perform 
audit certifications for financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. 
(including those who have previously been said certified public accountants, etc.; the same 
shall apply in the following paragraph) to provide explanations or other information 
regarding a particular issue, the listed venture fund issuer and manager shall cooperate in 
this process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to a listed venture fund issuer and manager for the 
purpose of requiring said certified public accountants, etc. to provide explanations or other 
information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, such listed venture fund issuer and manager shall each promptly submit a 
document stating that they agree to said certified public accountants, etc. providing said 
explanations or other information. 
 
Rule 1320.  Delisting Date 
Where the delisting of a listed venture fund is determined, the delisting date shall be handled 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1321.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed venture fund is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant to 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
226 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed venture fund as a Security Under 
Supervision in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1322.  Designation of Securities to Be Delisted 
Where a listed venture fund is determined to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed venture fund as a Security to Be Delisted 
for a period until the day before the delisting date in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1323.  Fees Relating to Listing, etc. 
A venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to an initial listing application and a 
venture fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund shall pay fees 
related to listing such as a listing examination fee, preliminary examination fee, examination 
fee pertaining to delisting, initial listing fee, additional listing fee at the time of additional 
issuance, and annual listing fee, along with other fees, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1324.  Succession at the Time of Technical Listing 
In application of the provisions prescribed by the Enforcement Rules to a venture fund-issuing 
investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund in cases where such venture fund-
issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed venture fund is listed upon the application 
of the provisions of Rule 1307 (including a venture fund issued by such investment corporation 
and a venture fund asset management company; the same shall apply in this rule), a venture 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to such listed venture fund shall be treated by 
deeming that it is the same as a venture fund investment corporation that is delisted due to the 
application of the provisions of the same rule; provided, however, the same shall not apply if 
the Exchange deems it inappropriate. 
 
Rule 1325.  Provisions Applying Mutatis Mutandis 
The provisions of Rule 424, Rule 429, Rule 606, and Rule 610 shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to venture funds. 
 
 
Chapter 4 
Country Funds 
 
Rule 1401.  Initial Listing Application of Country Fund 
1. An initial listing of a country fund shall be based on application of a foreign investment 
corporation that is the issuer of such country fund (hereinafter referred to as a "country fund-
issuing investment corporation") and an asset management company that has been entrusted 
with operations pertaining to management of such assets by such foreign investment 
corporation (hereinafter referred to as a "country fund asset management company"). 
2. In cases where a country fund is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from the date 
when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding paragraph, said initial 
listing application shall become invalid. 
3. Examination on a country fund pertaining to an initial listing application shall be conducted 
pursuant to the provisions of Rules 1405 and 1406. 
 
Rule 1402.  Preliminary Application 
1. A country fund-issuing investment corporation and a country fund asset management 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
227 
company which intend to make an application for initial listing may make a preliminary 
application by submitting an "Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application" that contains 
such matters as the planned day for making an initial listing application and other matters, 
and documents prepared in a manner equivalent to documents required for an initial listing 
application after a day which is three months prior to the day on which such initial listing 
application will be made. 
2. The provisions of Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 2 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial listing 
application is made pursuant to the preceding paragraph" shall be "the date when the 
preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following 
rule", and "said initial listing application" shall be "said preliminary application and any 
initial listing application which has been made within one (1) year counting from the date of 
said preliminary application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange shall conduct examination as to whether it has the likelihood of satisfying the 
provisions of Rule 1405 and Rule 1406. 
4. The provisions of Rule 1404, Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
examination referred to in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 1403.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. Where the Exchange lists a country fund pertaining to an initial listing application, a country 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to the initial listing application shall submit 
a "Listing Agreement for Country Fund" predetermined by the Exchange as prescribed by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The listing agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the 
listing date of the country fund pertaining to the initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the issue in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of a 
country fund pertaining to an initial listing application. 
 
Rule 1404.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. A country fund-issuing investment corporation and a country fund asset management 
company pertaining to an initial listing applicant (hereinafter referred to as a "country fund 
initial listing applicant) submit, when making an initial listing application, a "Security Initial 
Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange and a "Written Oath Pertaining 
to Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of 
the Enforcement Rules. 
2. Documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the "Security Initial 
Listing Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph; provided, however, that 
out of such documents, for those specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall be deemed 
sufficient to submit them by a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis. 
3. Where a country fund initial listing applicant gives notification or submits notice concerning 
offering or secondary distribution regarding an initial listing issue to the Prime Minister, etc. 
during the period after the day one (1) year prior to the end of the business period immediately 
prior to the initial listing application day and before the day on which listing is made, or 
where it falls under any other cases specified by the Enforcement Rules, such applicant shall 
submit documents specified by the Enforcement Rules pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules. 
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, where a country fund 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
228 
initial listing applicant is an issuer of a country fund listed on another financial instruments 
exchange in Japan, some of documents that should be submitted by such country fund initial 
listing applicant may be omitted. 
5. The Exchange may, if it deems necessary for listing examination, request a country fund 
initial listing applicant to submit informational reports or materials in addition to the 
documents prescribed in each of the preceding paragraphs and/or to provide cooperation in 
listing examination. 
6. Where the Exchange approves listing of a country fund, a country fund initial listing applicant 
shall agree that the Exchange makes documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available 
for public inspection, out of the documents referred to in the provisions of Paragraph 2 to the 
preceding paragraph, before and after the listing (including after a country fund initial listing 
applicant become a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed 
country fund). 
 
Rule 1405.   Initial Requirements of Listing Examination 
Listing examination of a country fund shall be carried out on a country fund that meets each of 
the following items. In this case, details of each such item shall be provided by the Enforcement 
Rules: 
(1) A country fund asset management company pertaining to an initial listing application 
shall have license, approval, or registration, etc. required for operations pertaining to asset 
management of a country fund-issuing investment corporation pursuant to foreign laws 
and regulations; 
(2) An initial listing application issue shall meet the following a. through j. 
a. Number of listed investment units: 
The number of listed investment units specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be 
expected to reach 4 million or more by the time of listing; 
b. Total net assets: 
The total net assets shall be expected to reach JPY 5 billion or more by the time of 
listing; 
c. Profits 
Profits are recorded in the base business period (meaning the most recent business 
period for which financial statements, etc. are presented in the financial information 
section of the annual securities report, etc. provided, however, that this is limited to a 
period after establishment of a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining 
to such initial listing application), or retained earnings are recorded on the last day of 
such business period. 
d. The number of investors in Japan 
The number of investors in Japan shall be expected to reach 600 or more by the time 
of listing 
e. False statement or adverse opinion, etc.: 
The following (a) to (c) are satisfied: 
(a) No false statement shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. which contain 
or make reference to financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. for 
each business period ended in the most recent two years (limited to the period after 
the country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to such initial listing 
application was established; the same shall apply in this e.); 
(b) An audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for each business period ended 
within the most recent two years shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or a "qualified 
opinion with exceptions," by certified public accountants, etc.; provided, however, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
229 
that the same shall not apply to the cases where  the Enforcement Rules specify 
otherwise; 
(c) An audit report attached to financial statements, etc. for a business period ended 
within the most recent year or an interim audit report attached to interim financial 
statements, etc. for an interim business period ended in a business period ended in 
the most recent year shall contain an "unqualified opinion" or an "opinion that the 
interim financial statements, etc. provide useful information" by certified public 
accountants, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where  
the Enforcement Rules specify otherwise; 
f. Request of investors for refund of investment units; 
The certificate of incorporation of a country fund-issuing investment corporation 
pertaining to an initial listing application shall contain matters referred to in the 
following (a) and (b): 
(a) Money shall be distributed to investors. 
(b) No refund of investment units shall be made due to request of investors 
g. Restriction of transfer of investment units; 
No restriction shall be imposed on transfer of investment units, or no such restriction is 
expected to be imposed by the time of listing. 
h. Handling by the designated book-entry transfer institution: 
It shall be required that the relevant country fund is subject to foreign stock, etc. book-
entry transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or is expected 
to be so by the time of listing; 
i. Status of trading on foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. 
It shall be required that the status of trading on a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc. is deemed to be smooth. 
 
Rule 1406.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a country fund shall be carried out as to whether or not it satisfies 
each of the following items: 
(1) A country fund-issuing investment corporation is in a state where disclosure of 
information concerning such country can be carried out in an appropriate manner; and 
(2) In addition to the above, the listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of 
the public interest or investor protection. 
2. Examination concerning whether or not matters referred to in each item of the preceding 
paragraph are satisfied shall be carried out on the basis of initial listing application 
documents concerning a country fund (meaning documents submitted by the country fund 
initial listing applicant pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1404) and inquires. 
3. Necessary matters concerning examination referred to in Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed by 
the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
 
Rule 1407.  Listing Application for New Securities 
1. Where an application is made for listing a new country fund that is not listed on the Exchange 
by a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund, the 
country fund-issuing investment corporation or the country fund asset management company 
pertaining to such listed country fund shall submit a "Security Listing Application Form" 
predetermined by the Exchange provided, however, that in the cases where mattes to be 
described in the "Security Listing Application Form" are included in the disclosure of 
information pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1410 or documents submitted to the Exchange 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1411, the Exchange shall deem that the listing application 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
230 
is being made by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where a country fund-issuing investment corporation or a country fund asset management 
company pertaining to a listed country fund newly issues a country fund, it shall, as a general 
rule, take procedures for listing application referred to in the preceding paragraph prior to 
such issuance each time. 
3. Where the Exchange lists the new country fund specified in Paragraph 1 based on the listing 
application referred to in the same paragraph, it shall amend descriptions contained in the 
listed securities ledger on the listing date. 
 
Rule 1408.  Listing of New Securities 
Where a listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding rule, the 
Exchange shall, as a general rule, approve listing as referred to in each of the following items.  
(1) Where a country fund pertaining to investment units to be newly issued, such country 
fund shall be listed when it is issued in addition to a listed country fund (in cases of a 
country fund having rights different from those of a listed venture fund, when such rights 
become the same). 
(2) In cases of a country fund which is additionally issued due to dividend reinvestment, etc. 
by a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund and 
for which it is difficult to make a listing application each time, such country fund shall 
be listed in addition to the listed country fund even before confirming the number of 
investment units to be issued. 
 
Rule 1409.  Alteration Listing Application 
1. In addition to cases prescribed in Rule 1407, where a country fund-issuing investment 
corporation and a country fund asset management company pertaining to a listed country 
fund (hereinafter referred to as "listed country fund issuer, etc.") intend to alter the name, 
quantity, etc. of such listed country fund, either entity of the listed country fund issuer, etc. 
shall make such an alteration by submitting a "Security Alteration Listing Application 
Form" predetermined by the Exchange provided, however, that in the cases where mattes 
to be described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" are included in the 
disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of the following rule or documents 
submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1411, the Exchange shall 
deem that the application is being made for such an alteration by said disclosure or 
submission. 
2. Where the Exchange makes alteration listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, it shall make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on the listing 
date. 
 
Rule 1410.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Country Funds 
1. A country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund shall carry 
out timely disclosure of information concerning such listed venture fund and listed country 
fund issuer, etc. 
2. Where a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund falls 
under any of the following items (excluding, in cases of matters referred to in Item (1) and 
Item (3), those that the Exchange deems as matters whose impact on investors’ investment 
decisions is of minor significance, such as cases which fall under the criteria specified by 
the Enforcement Rules), it shall disclose details immediately pursuant to the provisions of 
the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
231 
has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through m. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision): 
a. Split or reverse split of investment units; 
b. Additional issuance or secondary distribution of investment units; 
c. Offering of investment corporation bonds or borrowing of funds; 
d. Acquisition of own investment units; 
e. Distribution of money; 
f. Merger; 
g. Change to the certificate of incorporation or dissolution; 
h. Change in name; 
i. Change of the end of a business period; 
j. Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of a country fund to a financial 
instruments exchange in Japan or a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; 
k. Change in an entity that conducts works, on the basis of entrustment of a country fund-
issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund, which pertain to 
business such as management and custody of assets of said corporation; 
l. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings; 
or 
m. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through f. have occurred to a country 
fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund: 
a. Business improvement order, cancellation of registration, or other disciplinary actions 
equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency based on laws and 
regulations or accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations by an 
administrative agency; 
b. Falling under reasons for dissolution in accordance with laws and regulations; 
c. Falling into a state where commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or 
commencement of rehabilitation proceedings pursuant to the provisions of laws and 
regulations is required, or a state equivalent thereto; 
d. Request of investors for convocation of general investors meeting; 
e. Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body which 
decides business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, etc. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision) and details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of m. of the 
preceding item); or 
f. An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached audit 
report or an interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet 
Office Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public 
accountants or an audit firm (including audit reports or interim audit reports with 
certification equivalent to audit certification prepared by an entity equivalent to 
certified public accountants or an audit firm) is not expected to be submitted to the 
Prime Minister, etc. within the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 
24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act or has not been submitted within said period (except 
cases where disclosure has been made that said report is unlikely to be submitted 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
232 
within said period), was submitted after such disclosure had been made, or approval 
has been received from the Prime Minister, etc. for the extension of said period. 
(3) Where a country fund asset management company pertaining to a listed country fund has 
decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following a. through g. 
(including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision): 
a. Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of a listed country fund to a 
financial instruments exchange in Japan or a foreign financial instruments exchange; 
b. Merger; 
c. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings; 
d. Dissolution (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
e. Discontinuation of the business pertaining to asset management; 
f. Company split (limited to cases where the whole business is inherited); or 
g. Transfer of the whole business; 
(4) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through c. has occurred to a country 
fund asset management company pertaining to a listed country fund: 
a. Business improvement order, cancellation of registration, or other disciplinary actions 
equivalent thereto imposed by an administrative agency in accordance with laws and 
regulations or an accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations by an 
administrative agency; 
b. Ceasing to be a country fund asset management company pertaining to said listed 
country fund; or 
c. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings 
filed by an entity other than the country fund asset management company pertaining 
to such listed venture fund, such as a creditor; 
(5) In cases referred to in each item of Article 29, Paragraph 2, of the Cabinet Order on 
Disclosure of Specified Securities (excluding the cases referred to in each of the 
preceding items) 
(6) Where details of the financial results pertaining to the business year or interim business 
period pertaining to a listed country fund are fixed, or where, in cases of quarterly 
financial results being required pursuant to laws and regulations, etc. of a home country, 
etc. details of quarterly financial results are fixed; or 
(7) Change in socioeconomic circumstances in home country, etc. or a specific country or 
region that is an investment target of a country fund issuing investment corporation, 
which have material impact on performance of such country fund issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed country fund, or change in laws and regulations 
regarding rules or systems for the capital market in the home country. 
3. The provisions of Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination, etc. on 
disclosure of information of a listed country fund issuer, etc. 
4. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to Rule 414, and Rule 416 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to disclosure pursuant to the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs. 
In addition, the provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 443 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
a country fund issuer, etc. pertaining to a listed country fund. 
 
Rule 1411.  Submission of Documents, etc. 
1. Submission of documents, etc. to the Exchange by a country fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed country fund shall be conducted as specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
233 
2. A country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund shall agree 
that they shall submit documents, other than those in the preceding paragraph, which are 
requested based on justifiable reasons by the Exchange without delay and that, out of such 
documents submitted, the Exchange will make documents deemed necessary available for 
public inspection. 
 
Rule 1412.  Deleted.  
 
Rule 1413.  Code of Conduct Concerning Listed Country Funds 
A country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund shall not 
conduct a split or reverse split of the investment unit pertaining to a listed country fund which 
is likely to disrupt the secondary market or infringe upon investors. 
 
Rule 1414.  Ensuring Effectiveness 
The provisions of Rules 503 through 506 and Rules 508 through 511 shall be applied mutatis 
mutandis to ensuring of effectiveness for listed country funds. 
 
Rule 1415.  Delisting Criteria 
1. Where a listed country fund falls under any of the following items, such country fund shall 
be delisted. In these cases, handling of each such item shall be specified by the Enforcement 
rules. 
(1) Where a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund 
falls under the following a. or b., such country fund shall be delisted. 
a. Where such investment corporation falls under reasons for dissolution pursuant to the 
provisions of laws; or 
b. Where such investment corporation falls into a state where it requires bankruptcy 
proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings pursuant to the provisions of laws or a 
status equivalent thereto. 
(2) Where a country fund asset management company pertaining to a listed country fund falls 
under any of the following a. or b., such listed country fund shall be delisted; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where business which has been carried 
out by such country fund asset management company pertaining to a listed country fund 
is taken over by another asset management company and such listed country fund 
satisfies each item of Rule 1406, Paragraph 1. 
a. Where license, approval, or registration, etc. required for operations pertaining to asset 
management of a country fund-issuing investment corporation has expired, been 
cancelled, or changed pursuant to laws and regulation of a foreign country, and has 
ceased operations as asset management company; or 
b. Where the asset management company has ceased to be a county fund asset 
management company pertaining to such listed country fund; 
2. Where an issue of a listed country fund falls under any of the following items, such issue 
shall be delisted. Handling of each such item in such cases shall be specified by the 
Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Delayed submission of annual securities report, etc. 
An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report or 
an interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order on 
Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm 
is attached (including an audit report or an interim report pertaining to certification 
equivalent to an audit certification by an entity equivalent to a certified public accountants 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
234 
or an audit firm) is not submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within a month since a period 
specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act has passed 
(within three months in the case where such delayed submission is due to reasons not 
attributable to a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country 
fund, such as an act of providence,); 
(2) False statement or adverse opinion, etc. 
Where falling under the following a. or b. 
a. False statement is contained in an annual securities report, etc. pertaining to a listed 
country fund, and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in 
the market if the country fund is not delisted immediately; or 
b. Concerning an audit report attached to financial statements, etc. or an interim audit 
report attached to interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to a listed country fund, 
a certified public accountant, etc. state an "adverse opinion" or a "disclaimer of 
opinion" (excluding cases specified by the Enforcement Rules; hereinafter the same 
in this b.) in an audit report, or an "opinion that the interim financial statements, etc. 
do not provide useful information" or a "disclaimer of opinion" in an interim audit 
report, and the Exchange deems that it is clearly difficult to maintain order in the 
market if the country fund is not delisted immediately. 
(3) Breach of listing agreement, etc. 
Where a country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund 
has committed a material breach of the listing agreement as specified by the Enforcement 
Rules, where it has committed a material breach as to matters taken on oath in the Written 
Oath submitted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1404, Paragraph 1, or where a country 
fund-issuing investment corporation has ceased to be a party to the listing agreement. 
(4) Matters contained in the certificate of incorporation 
With respect to the certificate of incorporation of a country fund-issuing investment 
corporation pertaining to a listed country fund, any of the changes referred to in the 
following a. or g. shall be made: 
a. The provisions that money distribution shall be conducted are deleted; or 
b. Refund of investment units shall be possible upon demand from investors; 
(5) Restriction on transfer of investment units. 
Restriction is imposed on transfer of investment units 
(6) Handling by the designated book-entry transfer institution: 
The relevant issue ceases to be subject to the foreign stock, etc. book-entry transfer 
operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(7) Delisting, etc. in a foreign country 
Where the delisting of such issue from a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. has 
been determined or where the Exchange deems that it is difficult to immediately obtain 
quotations of such issue at a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc.; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to cases where it is deemed that delisting is 
inappropriate in consideration of reasons for delisting, etc. of such issue at the foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc., and other grounds such as the state of trading at the 
Exchange. 
(8) State of trading in a foreign country 
Where it is deemed that the state of trading of such issue at a foreign financial instruments 
exchange at the end the business period of a country fund-issuing investment corporation 
pertaining to a listed country fund has deteriorated remarkably; provided, however, that 
the same shall not apply to cases where it is deemed that delisting is inappropriate in 
consideration of reasons such as the state of trading at the Exchange. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
235 
(9) Influence of anti-social forces 
Where it is revealed that a listed country fund issuer, etc. has relationship specified by the 
Enforcement Rules as being subject to the influence of anti-social forces, the Exchange 
recognizes that such fact remarkably undermines investors' confidence in the market of 
the Exchange; or  
(10) Other 
Other than the preceding items, where the Exchange deems that delisting of such issue is 
appropriate from the viewpoints of the public interest or investor protection. 
3. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination pertaining to 
delisting pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 1416.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed country fund to request certified public accountants, etc. who perform 
audit certification for financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. 
(including those who have previously been said certified public accountants, etc.; the same 
shall apply in the following paragraph) to provide explanations or other information 
regarding a particular issue, the listed country fund issuer, etc. shall cooperate in this 
process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to a listed country fund issuer, etc. for the purpose of 
requiring said certified public accountants, etc. prescribed in the preceding paragraph to 
provide explanations or other information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, the listed country fund issuer, etc. shall each 
promptly submit a document stating that they agree to said certified public accountants, etc. 
providing said explanation or other information. 
 
Rule 1417.  Delisting Date 
Where the delisting of a listed country fund is determined, the delisting date shall be handled 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1418.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
Where a listed country fund is likely to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed country fund as a Security Under 
Supervision in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1419.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
Where a listed country fund is determined to be delisted, the Exchange may designate, pursuant 
to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, such listed country fund as a Security to Be Delisted 
for a period until the day before the delisting date in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1420.  Fees Relating to Listing 
A country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to an initial listing application and a 
country fund-issuing investment corporation pertaining to a listed country fund shall pay a 
listing examination fee, preliminary examination fee, initial listing fee, additional listing fee at 
the time of additional issuance, annual listing fee and other fees relating to listing pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
236 
Rule 1421.  Application Mutatis Mutandis 
The provisions of Rule 425, Rule 426, Rule 430, Rule 606, and Rule 610 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to country funds  
 
 
Chapter 5 
Infrastructure Funds 
 
Rule 1501.  Initial Listing Application of Infrastructure Fund 
1. An initial listing of an infrastructure fund shall be based on the application made by the entity 
set forth in the following items in accordance with the classifications referred to in said items. 
(1) Domestic infrastructure funds falling under investment securities 
The investment corporation that issued said infrastructure fund, and the management 
company entrusted to conduct operations pertaining to asset management; 
(2) Domestic infrastructure funds falling under beneficiary certificates (limited to beneficiary 
certificates of trustor-instructed investment trust; the same shall apply in this chapter) 
The management company that entrusted the investment trust pertaining to said 
infrastructure fund and the entrustee of the trust;  
(3) Foreign infrastructure funds falling under foreign investment securities and foreign 
infrastructure trust beneficiary certificates for which entrusted securities are said foreign 
infrastructure funds 
The foreign investment corporation that issues said infrastructure fund and the management 
company entrusted with business pertaining to management of said assets; 
(4) Foreign infrastructure funds of foreign investment trusts falling under beneficiary 
certificates and foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates for which entrusted 
securities are said foreign infrastructure funds; 
The management company that entrusted the foreign investment trust pertaining to said 
infrastructure fund (meaning, in cases of foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary certificates, 
foreign infrastructure funds that are entrusted securities) and the entrustee. 
2. An initial listing application can be made in cases where an initial listing application issue 
falls under Rule 1507, Paragraph 1, Item (2) or (3), even before the establishment of the 
issuer, provided that the application is made after the resolution of a general investors 
meeting pertaining to a consolidation-type merger. In this case, the initial listing application 
shall be made by the management company that is scheduled to be entrusted with operations 
pertaining to management of assets of the investment corporation that issues the listed 
infrastructure fund for which said consolidation-type merger is conducted and the investment 
corporation that will issue the infrastructure funds pertaining to said initial listing application. 
3. In cases where an infrastructure fund is not initially listed within one (1) year counting from 
the date when the initial listing application is made pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs, 
said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Examination of an infrastructure fund pertaining to an initial listing application shall be made 
pursuant to the provisions in Rules 1505 through 1507. 
 
Rule 1502.  Preliminary Application 
1. An entity (excluding an entity to whom the provisions of Rule 1507 apply) that intends to 
make an application for initial listing of an infrastructure fund may make a preliminary 
application by submitting a "Securities Initial Listing Preliminary Application that contains 
such matters as the planned day for making an initial listing application and other matters, 
and documents prepared in a manner equivalent to documents required for an initial listing 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
237 
application after a day which is three months prior to the day on which such initial listing 
application will be made.  
2. The provisions of Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
cases where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. In this case, in Paragraph 3 of the preceding rule, "the date when the initial listing 
application is made pursuant to Paragraph 1" shall be "the date when the preliminary 
application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 of the following rule", and 
"said initial listing application" shall be "said preliminary application and any initial listing 
application which has been made within one (1) year counting from the date of said 
preliminary application". 
3. Where a preliminary application is made pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1, the 
Exchange will proceed to examine said application as to whether it has the likelihood of 
meeting Rule 1505 and Rule 1506. 
4. The provisions of Rule 1504, Paragraph 5 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the 
examination defined in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Rule 1503.  Listing Agreements, etc. 
1. In cases where the Exchange lists an infrastructure fund pertaining to an initial listing 
application, the entity specified in the each item of Rule 1501, Paragraph 1 shall submit a 
"Listing Agreement for an Infrastructure Fund" predetermined by the Exchange as 
prescribed by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The listing agreement referred to in the preceding paragraph shall become effective as of the 
listing date of the infrastructure fund pertaining to the initial listing application. 
3. The Exchange shall enroll the security in the listed securities ledger on the listing date of the 
infrastructure fund pertaining to the initial listing application. 
 
Rule 1504.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application, etc. 
1. An entity that intends to make an application for initial listing of an infrastructure fund shall 
submit a "Security Initial Listing Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange and a 
"Written Oath Pertaining to Initial Listing Application" predetermined by the Exchange as 
specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. The "Report Concerning the Management System, etc. of an Issuer, etc. of an Infrastructure 
Fund" and other documents specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be attached to the 
"Security Initial Listing Application Form" prescribed in the preceding paragraph; provided, 
however, that out of such documents, for those specified in the Enforcement Rules, it shall 
be deemed sufficient to submit them by a date specified by the Exchange on a case-by-case 
basis. 
3. Where an initial listing application is made before the establishment of the issuer pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 1501, Paragraph 2, any documents the entity was not able to submit 
at the time of the initial listing application (limited to those in cases where it was deemed 
inevitable by the Exchange on a case-by-case basis), out of the attached documents specified 
by the preceding paragraph, will suffice, if the entity submits said documents immediately 
after submission becomes possible. 
4. The issuer that has made an initial listing application for a certain security (from among those 
entities who have made applications for initial listing of infrastructure funds) must submit 
documents specified by the Enforcements Rules, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Enforcement Rules, in the event that the issuer has given notification or submitted notice 
concerning offering or secondary distribution of the security to the Prime Minister, etc. 
during the period after the corresponding date from a year before to the end of the business 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
238 
period or the computation period immediately prior to the initial listing application day and 
before the day on which the listing is to be made, or in the event that any other cases specified 
by the Enforcement Rules apply. 
5. The Exchange may, if it deems it necessary in a listing examination, request that the initial 
listing applicant for an infrastructure fund submit an informational report or materials, in 
addition to the documents prescribed in the preceding paragraphs and/or that the initial 
listing applicant demonstrate cooperation during a listing examination. 
6. Where the Exchange approves listing of an infrastructure fund pertaining to an initial listing, 
the entity who has made the application for initial listing of said infrastructure fund agrees 
that, from the documents submitted pursuant to the provisions of each of the preceding 
paragraphs, before and after the listing (including after the entity who has made said 
application for initial listing has become the issuer of a listed infrastructure fund), the 
Exchange makes the documents specified by the Enforcement Rules available for public 
inspection. 
 
Rule 1505.   Initial Requirements in Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of a domestic infrastructure fund shall be carried out on an infrastructure 
fund that meets each of the following criteria. In this case, each criterion will be interpreted 
as per the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) The management company pertaining to a security for which an initial listing application 
has been made must be member of the Investment Trusts Association, Japan (General 
Incorporated Association); 
(2) The security for which an initial listing application has been made meets the following a. 
through l. 
a. The ratio of the value of infrastructure fund assets, etc. to the total value of working 
assets, etc. shall be expected to reach 70% or higher; 
b. The ratio of the total value of infrastructure assets, etc., infrastructure-related securities, 
and current assets to the total value of the working assets, etc. shall be expected to reach 
95% or higher by the time of listing; 
c. Deleted; 
d. The number of listed investment units or the number of listed beneficiary rights shall be 
expected to reach 4,000 or more by the time of listing; 
e. Total net assets shall be expected to reach  JPY 1 billion or more by the time of listing; 
f. Total assets shall be expected to reach JPY 5 billion or more by the time of listing; 
g. The number of investment units calculated by adding the number of own investment 
units (excluding the number of own investment units that are to be disposed in cases 
where a resolution to dispose own investment units has been made) to the total number 
of the investment units held by major investors or the total number of units of 
beneficiary rights held by major beneficiaries shall be expected to fall to or below 75% 
of the number of listed investment units or the number of listed beneficiary rights by the 
time of listing; 
h. The number of investors, excluding the issuer of said initial listing application security, 
in cases where there is possession of units held by major investors and the management 
company (excluding cases where a resolution to dispose own investment units has been 
made for all investment units) or where the number of beneficiaries, excluding the 
number of beneficiaries that does not include the major beneficiaries, shall be expected 
to reach  1,000 or more by the time of listing; 
i. The security satisfies the following (a) and (b): 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
239 
(a) No false statements shall be made in the annual securities reports, etc. that include or 
make reference to financial statements, etc. for each business period (limited to the 
period after the issuer of said investment security was established; the same shall 
apply hereinafter in this i.) or for each computation period (limited to the period after 
the commencement day of the trust agreement period; the same shall apply 
hereinafter in this i.), or that include or makes reference to interim financial 
statements, etc. for each business period or each computation period that ended in 
the last two years pertaining to a security for which an initial listing application has 
been made; and 
(b) The audit reports attached to financial statements, etc. for each business period or each 
computation period ending within the last two years or the interim audit reports 
attached to interim financial statements, etc. for a business period or a computation 
period that ended in the last year shall contain "unqualified opinion" or a "qualified 
opinion with exceptions" of a certified public accountant, etc., or alternatively, an 
"opinion stating that the interim financial statements, etc. provide useful information" 
or a "qualified opinion with exceptions" of a certified public accountant, etc.; 
provided, however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement 
Rules specify otherwise; 
j. The certificate of incorporation of the investment corporation or the basic terms and 
conditions of an investment trust must state the matters referred to in the following (a) 
through (d): 
(a) The basic policy for selecting operators 
(b) No refund of investment units shall be made upon demand from an investor and that 
no cancellation during a trust agreement period shall be made upon demand from a 
beneficiary; 
(c) The period prescribed as a business period or a computation period is to be six months 
or longer; 
(d) No additional trust shall be made for the investment trust, except where offering is 
made by submitting a security registration statement pursuant to the provisions of the 
Act (limited to cases where the initial listing application issues consist of beneficiary 
certificates); and 
k. It shall be required that the initial listing application issue will be subject to the book-
entry transfer operation of the designated book-entry transfer institution, or will be likely 
to be so by the time of listing; and 
l. Where the initial listing application issue is an investment security, the administrator of 
the investor register, etc. prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 2, Item (8) of the 
Investment Trust Act shall be specified in the Enforcement Rules as an institution 
approved by the Exchange; 
2. Listing examination of a foreign infrastructure fund shall be carried out on foreign 
infrastructure funds that meet each of the following criteria. In this case, each criterion will 
be interpreted as per the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) It shall be required that the management company pertaining to the initial listing 
application issue is to have license, approval, or registration, etc. required for asset 
management of a foreign infrastructure fund based on laws and regulations (including laws 
and regulations of foreign countries; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter.) 
(2) The initial listing application issue must satisfy the requirements in the preceding 
paragraph, Item (2), a. through f. and h. through j. In this case, the following terms are to 
be reworded as follows: "the investment corporation" as "the foreign investment 
corporation", "an investment trust" as "a foreign investment trust", and "beneficiary 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
240 
certificates" as "beneficiary certificates for a foreign investment trust", respectively in the 
same j. 
(3) It shall be required that a considerably large number of foreign investment securities or 
beneficiary certificates for a foreign investment trust are deemed as not being held by 
specific shareholders or beneficiaries; 
(4) It shall be required that said issue is subject to custody and book-entry transfer operation 
for foreign stocks, etc. or is expected to become so by the time of listing; 
(5) It shall be required that the initial listing application issue is listed or continuously traded 
on a foreign financial instruments exchange, etc., or is expected to be so; 
(6) It shall be required that laws similar to the Investment Trust Act have been developed for 
the issuance of an initial listing application, and the administrative agencies are supervising 
management companies and trustees pertaining to said issue;  
3. Listing examination of a foreign infrastructure fund shall be carried out on a foreign 
infrastructure fund that meets each of the following criteria. In this case, each criterion will 
be interpreted as per the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) The initial listing application issue shall satisfy the requirements in Paragraph 1, Item (2), 
a. through c. and k. 
(2) The foreign infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security pertaining to the initial listing 
application issue shall satisfy the requirements in Paragraph 1, Item (2), e, f, I, and j. In this 
case, the following terms are to be reworded as follows: "an investment corporation" as "a 
foreign investment corporation", "an investment trust" as "a foreign investment trust", and 
"a beneficiary certificate" as "a beneficiary certificate of a foreign investment trust", 
respectively in the same j. 
(3) It shall be required that 4000 units or more of the foreign infrastructure fund that is the 
entrusted security pertaining to an initial listing application issue are listed on a financial 
instruments exchange or are under a status that is equivalent to that of being listed at the 
time, and the number of units of trust beneficiary certificates for the foreign infrastructure 
funds listed on the Exchange is not considerably below such level. 
(4) It shall be required that the number of investors or beneficiaries of foreign infrastructure 
funds that are entrusted securities pertaining to initial listing application issues is1,000 or 
more and a considerably large number of foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary certificates 
is deemed not to be held by specific shareholders or beneficiaries; 
(5) It shall be required that the foreign infrastructure fund that consists of entrusted securities 
pertaining to an initial listing application issue is listed or continuously traded on a foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc., or is expected to be so; 
(6) It shall be required that laws similar to the Investment Trust Act have been developed for 
the issuance of the foreign infrastructure fund that is the entrusted security pertaining to an 
initial listing application issue, and administrative agencies are supervising management 
companies and trustees pertaining to such issue; and 
(7) It shall be required that the management company has entered into a deposit agreement, 
etc. and any other agreements for the security for which the company has made the initial 
listing application. 
 
Rule 1506.  Listing Examination 
1. Listing examination of an infrastructure fund shall be carried out as to whether or not the 
infrastructure fund satisfies each of the following criteria: 
(1) The entity that has applied for the initial listing of an infrastructure fund is in a state that 
allows the entity to carry out disclosure of information concerning said infrastructure fund 
in an appropriate manner; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
241 
(2) The entity that has applied for the initial listing of an infrastructure fund is in a state that 
allows the entity to carry out asset management, etc. in a sound manner; 
(3) Distribution of money or profit pertaining to a security for which the initial listing 
application has been made is expected to continue after listing; and 
(4) In addition to the above, the listing is not deemed inappropriate from the viewpoint of the 
public interest or the protection of investors. 
2. Examination concerning whether or not all criteria in the preceding paragraph are satisfied 
shall be carried out on the basis of the initial listing application documents concerning the 
infrastructure fund (meaning documents submitted by the entity who has applied for the 
initial listing of an infrastructure fund pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1504) and inquires, 
etc. 
3. Necessary matters concerning the examination defined in the preceding paragraph shall be 
prescribed under the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
 
Rule 1507.  Technical Listing 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding two rules, if the cases referred to in each 
item below apply, where an application is made without delay for initial listing of an 
infrastructure fund issued by the investment corporation surviving after a merger or the 
investment corporation created by said merger, listing examination shall be carried out 
pursuant to the criteria specified in each of the following items: 
(1) Where the investment corporation that is the issuer of a listed domestic infrastructure fund 
is merged through an absorption-type merger by the investment corporation that is the 
issuer of an unlisted infrastructure fund, and said listed domestic infrastructure fund is to 
be delisted as a result of the dissolution caused by said absorption-type merger; 
a. The criteria in Rule 1505, Item (1), and Item (2), a., b. and d. and i. through l. (excluding 
(d) of j.) and in each item of Paragraph 1 of the preceding rule shall be satisfied. In this 
case, with respect to application of the provisions in Rule 1505, Paragraph 1, Item (2), 
i., "a security for which an initial listing application has been made" in the same i. is to 
be reworded as "said unlisted infrastructure"; 
b. Where the first sentence of Rule 1520, Paragraph 2, Item (1), d. applies to the investment 
corporation that is the issuer of the listed domestic infrastructure, the first sentence of 
the same item is unlikely to apply by the time of the initial listing to the investment 
corporation that is the issuer of the security for which the initial listing application has 
been made; and 
c. Where the first sentence of Rule 1520, Paragraph 2, Item (1), e. applies to the investment 
corporation that is the issuer of said listed domestic infrastructure fund, the first sentence 
of the same item is unlikely to apply by the time of the initial listing to the investment 
corporation that is the issuer of the security for which said initial listing application has 
been made; 
(2) Where the investment corporation that is the issuer of a listed domestic infrastructure fund 
carries out a consolidation-type merger with the investment corporation that is the issuer 
of a listed domestic infrastructure fund, and said listed domestic infrastructure fund is to 
be delisted as a result of the dissolution caused by said consolidation-type merger; 
a. The criteria in Rule 1505, Paragraph 1, Item (1), and Item (2), d. and j. (a) through (c), 
k. and l., and each item of Paragraph 1 of the preceding rule shall be satisfied; 
b. If the first sentence of Rule 1520, Paragraph 2, Item (1), a. or the first sentence of the 
same item, b. applies to the investment corporation that is the issuer of said listed 
domestic infrastructure fund, the first sentence of the same item, a. or the first sentence 
of b. of the same item is unlikely to apply by the time of the initial listing to the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
242 
investment corporation that is the issuer of a security for which said initial listing 
application has been made; 
c. The criteria in b. and c. of the preceding item shall be satisfied; and 
(3) Where the investment corporation that is the issuer of a listed domestic infrastructure fund 
carries out a consolidation-type merger with the investment corporation that is the issuer 
of an unlisted infrastructure fund, and said listed domestic infrastructure fund is to be 
delisted as a result of the dissolution caused by said consolidation-type merger : 
The criteria in Item (1), a. through c. shall be satisfied. 
2. The listing date for the investment security that is to be listed pursuant to the provisions of 
the preceding paragraph shall be the day on which the absorption-type merger or 
consolidation-type merger becomes effective; provided, however, that the same shall not 
apply to cases where listing is impossible or difficult on said day because of the timing of 
the initial listing application, etc. 
 
Rule 1508.  Public Offering, Secondary Distribution, etc. Before Listing 
Necessary matters concerning a public offering (meaning a new issuance of a domestic 
infrastructure fund by general offering; the same shall apply hereinafter in this chapter) or a 
secondary distribution (see Note 1 below) carried out during the period from the day on which 
the application for initial listing of a domestic infrastructure fund is made to the day preceding 
the listing date and public offering at the time of the establishment of the investment corporation 
(see Note 2 below) and the issuance of a domestic infrastructure fund carried out before listing 
(see Note 3 below) shall be as specified by the Enforcement Rules.  
(Note 1) This excludes a public offering or the secondary distribution for a security to which 
the provisions of the preceding rule apply concerning listing examination and a 
public offering or a secondary distribution for a domestic infrastructure fund listed 
on another financial instruments exchange in Japan. 
(Note 2) This is limited to cases where the application for initial listing of a domestic 
infrastructure fund to be issued by the investment corporation is promptly made 
after the establishment of said investment corporation. 
(Note 3) This excludes an issuance pertaining to a security to which the provisions of the 
preceding rule apply concerning listing examination and an issuance pertaining to 
a domestic infrastructure fund listed on another financial instruments exchange in 
Japan. 
 
Rule 1509.  Listing Application for New Infrastructure Funds 
1. Where an application is made for listing an infrastructure fund pertaining to investment units 
or beneficiary rights that are to be newly issued by the investment corporation or the 
investment corporation pertaining to the listed domestic infrastructure fund that consists of 
newly issued investment unit subscription warrant securities are not listed on the Exchange, 
the entities specified under each item in Rule 1501, Paragraph 1 (hereinafter referred to as 
the "issuer, etc. of a listed infrastructure fund") is to submit the "Security Listing Application 
Form" predetermined by the Exchange provided, however, that in the cases where mattes to 
be described in the "Security Listing Application Form" are included in the disclosure of 
information pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1513 or documents submitted to the Exchange 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1514, the Exchange shall deem that the listing application 
is being made by said disclosure or submission. 
2. Where any issuer, etc. of a listed infrastructure fund newly issues an infrastructure fund, such 
party shall, as a general rule, follow the listing application procedures as in the preceding 
paragraph prior to said issuance on a case-by-case basis. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
243 
3. In cases where a new investment unit subscription warrant security is not initially listed 
within one (1) year counting from the date when the initial listing application is made 
pursuant to Paragraph 1, said initial listing application shall become invalid. 
4. Where the Exchange lists the infrastructure fund or a new investment unit subscription 
warrant security as per listing application in Paragraph 1, the Exchange shall amend the 
descriptions that appear in the listed securities ledger on the listing date. 
 
Rule 1510.  Listing of New Infrastructure Fund 
Where a listing application is made pursuant to the provisions of the preceding rule, the 
Exchange shall, as a general rule, approve listing as referred to in each of the following items. 
In this case, the handling shall be as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
(1) Out of an infrastructure fund pertaining to investment units or beneficial rights newly 
issued by an investment corporation or an investment trust pertaining to a listed domestic 
infrastructure fund, those specified by the Enforcement Rules shall be listed by when-
issued transactions; 
(2) Where the relation of rights of an infrastructure fund pertaining to investment units or 
beneficial rights newly issued by an investment corporation or an investment trust 
pertaining to a listed domestic infrastructure fund is different from that of a listed domestic 
infrastructure fund and the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules apply, said domestic 
infrastructure fund shall be listed when it is issued; and 
(3) In addition to cases where the criteria in the preceding two items are satisfied, the newly 
listed infrastructure fund shall be listed as an addition to a listed infrastructure fund when 
the new fund is issued (in the case where the relation of rights of the infrastructure fund is 
different from that of the listed infrastructure fund, when both have the same relation of 
rights). 
 
Rule 1511.  Listing of New Investment Unit Subscription Warrant Securities 
1. Where a new investment unit subscription warrant security for which a listing application 
has been made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1509 has a listed domestic infrastructure 
fund as its objective, the Exchange shall approve listing if the new investment unit 
subscription warrant security meets the criteria referred to in each of the following items. 
(1) The new investment unit subscription warrant security for which the listing application 
has been made meets the criteria prescribed by the Enforcement Rules; 
(2) The listed investment corporation (meaning the investment corporation that is the issuer 
of a listed infrastructure fund; the same shall apply in this chapter) that is the issuer of the 
new investment unit subscription warrant security has implemented either of the 
procedures in a. or b. (excluding cases where said listed investment corporation has entered 
into an agreement prescribed in Article 2, Paragraph 6, Item (3) of the Act for the new 
investment unit subscription warrant security (hereinafter referred to as a "commitment-
type case" in this rule)) 
a. Examination pertaining to reasonableness of issuance of investment units by a trading 
participant; 
b. Confirmation of investors’ intent by means such as a resolution at a general investors 
meeting 
(3) The management performance and financial condition of the listed investment corporation 
that is the issuer of the new investment unit subscription warrant security do not fall under 
either of the following a. or b. (excluding commitment-type cases). 
a. Net income is not positive in the last business period (meaning the business period covered 
by the most recently submitted annual securities report. etc.; the same shall apply in the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
244 
following b.); 
b. Total net assets did not reach JPY 500 million at the end of the last business period. 
(4) The listing is not deemed inappropriate in terms of public interest or investor protection. 
2. Where the new investment unit subscription warrant security is to be listed pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, the entity who has made said listing application shall 
submit a "Written Statement of Assurance" predetermined by the Exchange as specified by 
the Enforcement Rules. 
3. Necessary matters concerning the listing examination described in Paragraph 1 shall be 
prescribed by the Guidelines Concerning Listing Examination, etc. 
4. Other necessary matters concerning listing of new investment unit subscription warrant 
securities shall be specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1512.  Application for Alterations to Listing 
1. In addition to cases prescribed in 1509, where a listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. intend 
to alter the name, quantity, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund, any such issuer, etc. shall 
make an application for such an alteration by submitting the "Security Alteration Listing 
Application Form" predetermined by the Exchange provided, however, that in the cases 
where mattes to be described in the "Security Alteration Listing Application Form" are 
included in the disclosure of information pursuant to the provisions of the following rule or 
documents submitted to the Exchange pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1514, the Exchange 
shall deem that the application is being made for such an alteration by said disclosure or 
submission. 
2. Where the Exchange makes alterations to a listing pursuant to the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph, the Exchange will make changes to descriptions in the listed securities ledger on 
the listing date. 
 
Rule 1513.  Disclosure of Information Concerning Listed Infrastructure Funds 
1. The listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. must carry out timely disclosure of information 
concerning the listed infrastructure fund (in cases said listed infrastructure fund security is a 
listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary certificate, this refers to the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security), the issuer, etc. of the listed infrastructure 
fund, the operator, and assets under management, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund. 
2. Timely disclosure of information concerning the listed infrastructure fund (in cases said listed 
infrastructure fund security is a listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate, 
this refers to the foreign infrastructure that is an entrusted security) or the issuer, etc. of the 
listed infrastructure fund shall be carried out pursuant to the provisions of each of the 
following items in accordance with the classification of the listed infrastructure fund as 
referred to in each such item; 
(1) A domestic infrastructure fund in the form of an investment security, a foreign 
infrastructure in the form of a foreign investment security, and the foreign infrastructure 
fund trust beneficiary certificate for which the entrusted security is said foreign 
infrastructure fund: 
In cases where any of the following a. through d. (excluding matters falling under 
criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules and those which the Exchange deems as matters 
whose impact on investors' investment decisions is of minor significance) apply to the listed 
infrastructure fund issuer, etc., the entity must immediately disclose all pertinent details 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
a. Where an investment corporation or a foreign investment corporation that is a listed 
infrastructure fund issuer (hereinafter referred to as the "investment corporation, etc.") 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
245 
has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through (p) 
(including cases where it has decided to not carry out matters pertaining to said decision); 
(a) Split or reverse split of investment units; 
(b) Additional issuance or secondary distribution of investment units; 
(c) Offering of investment corporation bonds or borrowing of funds; 
(d) Merger; 
(e) Change to the certificate of incorporation or dissolution; 
(f) Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of an infrastructure fund (in the 
case of a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate, said fund refers to the 
foreign infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security) to a financial instruments 
exchange in Japan or in a foreign country; 
(g) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings; 
(h) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(i) That administrative work relating to the investor register will not be entrusted to an 
institution approved by the Exchange; 
(j) Conclusion of an entrustment contract pertaining to asset management, or cancellation 
of such a contract;  
(k) Distribution of money;  
(l) Request prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 6, Item (4) of the Act, or Article 167, 
Paragraph 5, Item (5) of the Act; 
(m) Acquisition of own investment units pursuant to Article 80-2, Paragraph 1 of the 
Investment Trust Act (including cases where the provisions apply by replacing terms 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 80-5, Paragraph 2 of the same Act) or to laws and 
regulations corresponding thereto; 
(n) Gratis allotment of new investment unit subscription warrants; 
(o) Deduction of all or part of losses from the total amount of capital contribution, etc. 
pursuant to the provisions in Article 136, Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(p) In addition to the matters referred to in the items from (a) through the preceding (o), 
important matters concerning the listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said infrastructure fund 
is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate) or 
important matters pertaining to operation, business, or assets of the investment 
corporation, etc. that have a considerable effect on investment decisions; 
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (t) have occurred to an 
investment corporation or a foreign investment corporation that is a listed infrastructure 
fund issuer; 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 214 of the Investment 
Trust Act or similar disciplinary actions pursuant to laws and regulations; 
(b) A fact that causes the delisting of a specified security (meaning the specified security 
prescribed in Article 163, Paragraph 1 of the Act; the same shall apply in this (b)) or 
options pertaining to a specified security; 
(c) That the amount of net assets is likely to fall below the base net asset value specified in 
Article 124, Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(d) Notice of cancellation of registration pursuant to the provisions of Article 215, 
Paragraph 2 of the Investment Trust Act; 
(e) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
246 
reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body which decides 
business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, etc. (including 
cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision) and 
details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding a.); 
(f) An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached audit 
report or interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office 
Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an 
audit firm is not expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within the period 
specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act or has not 
been submitted within said period (except cases where disclosure has been made that 
said report is unlikely to be submitted within said period), was submitted after such 
disclosure had been made, or approval has been received from the Prime Minister, etc. 
for the extension of said period; 
(g) That a notice of canceling an entrustment agreement of administrative work relating to 
the investor register is received, an issuer is unlikely to entrust work relating to the 
investor register to an institution approved by the Exchange, or an issuer has decided 
that it will not entrust administrative work relating to the investor register to an 
institution approved by the Exchange; 
(h) Damage arising from a disaster or damage that has occurred in the course of business 
execution;  
(i) Filing of a lawsuit pertaining to property rights, issuance of a judgment on such a lawsuit 
by a court, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial decision; 
(j) Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of asset 
management or other disciplinary actions equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a 
petition, or completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition 
without a judicial decision; 
(k) Cancellation of the registration referred to in Article 187 of the Investment Trust Act 
pursuant to the provision of Article 216, Paragraph 1 of said Act or other disciplinary 
actions equivalent thereto by an administrative agency based on laws and regulations;  
(l) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings by 
an entity other than said investment corporation, etc., such as a creditor; 
(m) Dishonor, etc.;  
(n) As a result of a dishonor, etc., a petition for commencement of bankruptcy procedures, 
etc., or a fact equivalent to these having occurred with respect to a debtor or a main 
debtor with guarantee obligations, there is a possibility of default on accounts receivable, 
loans, or other receivables from said debtor or on the right to obtain reimbursement 
against such main debtor on exercising such guarantee obligations; 
(o) Suspension of trade with a main business partner (meaning a business partner specified 
in Article 29-2-3, Item (7) of the Enforcement Order) or suspension of trade with two 
or more business partners for the same reason or in the same period; 
(p) Exemption of obligations or extension of a repayment deadline (limited to an extension 
that the Exchange deems equivalent to exemption of obligations) by a creditor, or 
assumption or fulfillment of obligations by a third party; 
(q) Discovery of resources; 
(r) The ratio of the sum of the values of assets including real estate prescribed in Article 
105, Item (1), Sub-item 6 of the Investment Trust Act Enforcement Regulation (the same 
shall apply in this (r)) to the total amount of assets has exceeded 50% (excluding cases 
where the certificate of incorporation stipulates that more than 50% of the total amount 
of assets will be invested in assets including real estate); 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
247 
(s) Demand from investors for ceasing issuance of investment securities; 
(t) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (s), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases of a listed foreign infrastructure 
trust beneficiary certificate) or its investment corporation, etc. that have a significant 
impact on investment decisions; 
c. Where an asset management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund has decided 
to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following (a) through (n) (including cases 
where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision); 
(a) Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of an infrastructure fund to a 
financial instruments exchange in Japan or a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.; 
(b) Merger of said asset management company; 
(c) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings, rehabilitation proceedings, or 
reorganization proceedings by said asset management company; 
(d) Dissolution of said asset management company (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
(e) Discontinuation or abolishment of the business pertaining to asset management 
entrusted by said investment corporation, etc.; 
(f) Discontinuation or abolishment of all or part of management of assets carried out under 
entrustment by said investment corporation, etc.; 
(g) Company split of said asset management company; 
(h) Transfer or receipt of the whole or part of the business of said asset management 
company; 
(i) Cancellation of the entrustment contract pertaining to asset management that was 
concluded with said asset management company; 
(j) Share exchange of said asset management company; 
(k) Share transfer of said asset management company; 
(k)-2 Share delivery of said asset management company; 
(l) Commencement of new asset management based on entrustment from said investment 
corporation; 
(m) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, from said asset management 
company to an administrative agency pursuant to laws and regulations; or 
(n) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (m), important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the 
foreign infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in the case of a listed foreign 
infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate) or its asset management company that 
have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
d. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (l) have occurred to an asset 
management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund; 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 of the Act or 
similar disciplinary action pursuant to laws and regulations; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in Rule 
1520, Paragraph 1, Item (1), b.); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) and the preceding (b), authorization, approval, or 
disciplinary actions by an administrative agency in accordance with laws and 
regulations; 
(d) Change in a specified related corporation (meaning a specified related corporation 
prescribed in Article 166, Paragraph 5 of the Act; the same shall apply in this item); 
(e) Change to a major shareholder; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
248 
(f) Filing of a lawsuit for a claim relating to property rights pertaining to the management 
of assets entrusted by the investment corporation, etc., issuance of a judgment on such 
a lawsuit, or completion of such a lawsuit in whole or part without a judicial decision; 
(g) Filing of a petition for a provisional disposition order that seeks suspension of business 
pertaining to asset management entrusted by the investment corporation, etc. or any 
other disciplinary action equivalent thereto, a court hearing for such a petition, or 
completion of procedures in whole or part pertaining to such a petition without a judicial 
decision; 
(h) Petition, etc. for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by a creditor or any entity 
other than the management company; 
(i) Dishonor, etc.; 
(j) Petition, etc. for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings pertaining to a specified 
related corporation; 
(k) The special controlling shareholder (where this is a corporation, the body that decides 
its business execution) has decided to make a demand for share, etc. cash out pertaining 
to the management company of said investment corporation, etc. or has decided not to 
make a demand for share, etc. cash out pertaining to said decision (limited to decisions 
that were made public). 
(l) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding (a) through (k), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in the case of a listed foreign 
infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its investment corporation, etc. that have a 
significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
(2) The domestic infrastructure fund that is in the form of a beneficiary certificate, the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is in the form of a foreign investment trust beneficiary certificate 
and the foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate for which the foreign 
infrastructure fund is an entrusted security: 
    In cases where the listed infrastructure fund management company falls under any of 
the following a. through d. (excluding, with regard to matters referred to in a., cases where 
said company falls under those which the Exchange deems as matters whose impact on 
investment decisions is of minor significance, such as a cases where said company falls 
under the criteria specified by the Enforcement Rules), they must immediately disclose all 
pertinent details pursuant to the provisions in the Enforcement Rules. 
a. Where a management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund has decided to 
carry out any of matters referred to in the following (a) through (p) (including cases where 
it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision); 
(a) Split or reverse split of beneficiary certificates; 
(b) Additional trust or secondary distribution; 
(c) Borrowing of funds necessary for an investment trust; 
(d) Change to the basic terms and conditions of an investment trust or cancellation of an 
investment trust agreement; 
(e) Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of an infrastructure fund to a 
financial instruments exchange in Japan or a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.; 
(f) Merger of said management company; 
(g) Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by said management company; 
(h) Dissolution of said management company (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
(i) Discontinuation of financial instruments business or operations pertaining to asset 
management by said management company; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
249 
(j) Ceasing to be an entity which carries out investment management business by 
completing an alteration registration specified in Article 31, Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
(k) Company split of said management company; 
(l) Transfer or receipt of the whole or part of the business of said management company; 
(m) Application for authorization or approval, or notification, made by said asset 
management company to an administrative agency in accordance with laws and 
regulations; 
(n) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification, etc. of 
financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual 
securities reports or semiannual securities reports; 
(o) A decision that said issue will not be subject to book-entry transfer operations 
conducted by a designated book-entry transfer institution; 
(p) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding (a) through (o), important matters 
related to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the 
foreign infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in the case of a listed foreign 
infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate) or its investment corporation, etc. that 
have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
b. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) through (f) has occurred to a 
management company of a listed infrastructure fund; 
(a) Business improvement order pursuant to the provisions of Article 51 of the Act or 
similar disciplinary actions pursuant to laws and regulations; 
(b) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in Rule 
1520, Paragraph 1, Item (2), a.); 
(c) Other than the facts referred to in (a) and the preceding (b), authorization, approval or 
disciplinary actions by the Prime Minister, etc. in accordance with the laws and 
regulations; 
(d) Change to certified public accountants, etc. who carry out audit certification of financial 
statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. contained in annual securities 
reports or semiannual securities reports (excluding cases where the body which decides 
business execution has decided to change certified public accountants, etc. (including 
cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said decision) and 
details have been disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the preceding a.); 
(e) An annual securities report or a semiannual securities report that has an attached audit 
report or interim audit report specified in Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office 
Order on Audit Certification prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an 
audit firm is not expected to be submitted to the Prime Minister, etc. within the period 
specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, Paragraph 1 of the Act or has not 
been submitted within said period (except cases where disclosure has been made that 
said report is unlikely to be submitted within said period), was submitted after such 
disclosure had been made, or approval has been received from the Prime Minister, etc. 
for the extension of said period; 
(f) Other than the facts referred to in (a) through the preceding (e), important facts related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said foreign infrastructure 
fund is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its 
investment corporation, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; 
c. Where a trust company, etc. that is an entrustee of an investment trust pertaining to a listed 
infrastructure fund has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in the following 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
250 
(a) or (b) (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters pertaining to said 
decision); 
(a) Application for delisting or cancellation of registration of an infrastructure fund to a 
financial instruments exchange in Japan or in a foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.; 
(b) Other than the matters referred to in the preceding item (a), important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said foreign infrastructure 
fund is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its 
investment corporation, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; 
d. Where any of the facts referred to in the following (a) or (b) has occurred to a trust 
company, etc. that is an entrustee of an investment trust pertaining to a listed 
infrastructure fund; 
(a) A fact that causes delisting (limited to those pertaining to a reason referred to in Rule 
1520, Paragraph 1, Item (2), b.); 
(b) Other than the facts referred to in the preceding item (a), important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said foreign infrastructure 
fund is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its 
investment corporation, etc. that have a significant impact on investment decisions; 
3. With regard to timely disclosure of information by the operator of the listed infrastructure 
fund, if any of the following items applies to the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc., said 
operator, etc. must immediately disclose all pertinent details pursuant to the provisions in 
the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where an operator of a listed infrastructure fund has decided to carry out any of the matters 
referred to in the following a. through h. (including cases where it has decided not to carry 
out matters pertaining to said decision); 
a. Merger 
b. Petition for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings; 
c. Dissolution (excluding dissolutions by merger); 
d. Discontinuation of the business pertaining to management of infrastructure investment 
assets (including cases where the operator has made the decision to no longer be an 
operator); 
e. Company split 
f. Transfer or receipt of the whole or part of the business; 
g. Application for authorization or approval, or notification pertaining to management of 
infrastructure investment assets made to an administrative agency pursuant to laws and 
regulations, or other similar procedures; 
h. Other than the matters referred to in the preceding a. through g., important matters related 
to operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said foreign infrastructure 
fund is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its 
operator which have a significant impact on investors’ investment decisions; 
(2) Where any of the facts referred to in the following a. through d. has occurred to an operator 
of a listed infrastructure fund; 
a. Business improvement order, cancellation of registration, or other disciplinary actions 
equivalent thereto by an administrative agency based on laws and regulations, or an 
accusation pertaining to violation of laws and regulations;  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
251 
b. Ceasing to be the operator of said listed infrastructure fund; 
c. Petition, etc. for commencement of bankruptcy proceedings filed by an entity other than 
the operator, such as a creditor; 
d. Other than the facts referred to in the preceding a. through c., important facts related to 
operation, administration or assets of a listed infrastructure fund (meaning the foreign 
infrastructure fund that is an entrusted security in cases where said foreign infrastructure 
fund is in the form of a listed foreign infrastructure trust beneficiary security) or its 
investment corporation, etc. which have a significant impact on investors’ investment 
decisions; 
4. With regard to timely disclosure of information by the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. 
on assets under management, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund, where the listed 
infrastructure fund issuer, etc. falls under any of the following items (with regard to matters 
referred to in Items (1) and (2), excluding cases of falling under those that the Exchange 
deems as matters whose impact on investors’ investment decisions is of minor significance, 
such as cases of falling under the criteria specified in the Enforcement Rules), said listed 
infrastructure fund issuer, etc. must immediately disclose all pertinent details pursuant to the 
provisions in the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Where a management company has decided to carry out any of the matters referred to in 
the following a. through g. (including cases where it has decided not to carry out matters 
pertaining to said decision); 
a. Transfer or acquisition of assets pertaining to assets under management, etc.; 
b. Leasing or cancellation of leasing of assets under management, etc. 
c. Conclusion or termination of an agreement pertaining to the management of infrastructure 
investment assets; 
d. A change to operator selection criteria (meaning the operation selection criteria specified 
by the management company pursuant to the operator selection basic policy; the same 
shall apply hereinafter.); 
e. A change, etc. of the operator; 
f. A change to risk management policies; 
g. Other than the matters referred to in a. through the preceding f., important matters 
concerning assets under management, etc. that have a significant impact on investment 
decisions; 
(2) Those where facts referred to in the following a. through g. have occurred; 
a. Damage arising from a disaster or damage that has occurred in the course of business 
pertaining to assets under management, etc. (where the assets under management, etc. are 
infrastructure securities or infrastructure-related securities, including infrastructure 
investment assets of said infrastructure securities or infrastructure-related securities; the 
same shall apply in the following b.);  
b. Cancellation of a lease for assets under management, etc. (excluding cases where the 
pertinent details are disclosed pursuant to the provisions of the b. of the preceding item) 
c. Suspension of operations for infrastructure investment assets; 
d. Change to or termination of an agreement pertaining to management of infrastructure 
investment assets; 
e. Important authorization, approval, or disciplinary action pertaining to infrastructure 
investment assets by an administrative agency; 
f. A change, etc. of the operator; 
g. Other than the facts referred to in a. through the preceding f., important facts concerning 
assets under management, etc. that have a significant impact on investment decisions; 
(3) Those where a management company carries out transactions referred to in any of the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
252 
items in Article 13, Paragraph 1 of the Investment Trust Act (including cases where said 
item is applied mutatis mutandis in Article 54 of the same Act) or transactions referred to 
in Article 203, Paragraph 2 of the same Act (limited to cases where it is necessary to issue 
a document to a beneficiary of an investment trust pursuant to these provisions); 
(4) Those where details (including information specified by the Enforcement Rules) of 
financial results for a business period or a computation period, or alternatively, an interim 
business period or an interim computation period pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund 
are settled; or 
(5) Those where there is an inconsistency (limited to those meeting the criteria specified by 
the Enforcement Regulations as matters that have a material impact on investment 
decisions) between the forecast value that was newly calculated by the issuer of the listed 
infrastructure fund or financial results for the business period or for said computation 
period and the last published forecast value (where there is no such value, the published 
actual value for the previous business period or the previous computation period) with 
respect to operating income, ordinary income, or net income, or with respect to distribution 
of money or profits of the fund pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund. 
5. In addition to the preceding three paragraphs, if the listed foreign infrastructure fund issuer, 
etc., (meaning the entity specified in Rule 1501, Paragraph 1, Item (3) in cases where the 
listed foreign infrastructure fund is in the form of a foreign investment security, and the 
entity specified in Paragraph 1, Item (4) of the same rule in cases where the listed foreign 
infrastructure fund is in the form of an entrusted security of the foreign investment trust 
beneficiary certificate; the same shall apply hereinafter) or the listed foreign infrastructure 
fund beneficiary certificate issuer, etc. (meaning the entity specified in Rule 1501, Paragraph 
1, Item (3) in cases where the listed foreign infrastructure fund is in the form of a foreign 
investment security, and the entity specified in Paragraph 1, Item (4) of the same rule in 
cases where the listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate whose entrusted 
security is a foreign infrastructure fund is in the form of a beneficiary certificate of the 
foreign investment trust; the same shall apply hereinafter) falls under any of the following 
circumstances referred to in the following items, said listed foreign infrastructure, etc. or 
said foreign infrastructure fund beneficiary issuer must immediately disclose the pertinent 
details pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Changes in socioeconomic circumstances in the country, etc. where the issuer’s 
headquarters are located that have material impact on the performance of the listed foreign 
infrastructure fund or the listed foreign infrastructure fund beneficiary certificate 
(hereinafter referred to as the "listed foreign infrastructure fund, etc." in this paragraph), or 
in the specific country or region where the issuer conducts investment activity for said 
listed foreign infrastructure fund, etc.; or otherwise, changes in laws and regulations, etc. 
regarding rules or systems for the capital market in the country where the issuer’s 
headquarters are located. 
(2) Any event that has occurred in the pertinent foreign country that has material impact on 
the circulation of the listed foreign infrastructure fund, etc. 
6. In addition to Paragraph 2 through the preceding paragraph, where an issuer, etc. of the listed 
foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate has made a decision to change or 
terminate a deposit agreement, etc., or any other agreement, or other matters that have a 
material impact on a right, etc. related to the listed foreign infrastructure fund beneficiary 
certificate, or where a fact that has a material impact on said right, etc. has arisen, the issuer 
must immediately disclose the pertinent details pursuant to the provisions in the 
Enforcement Rules. 
7. The provisions in Rule 412 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examination, etc. on 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
253 
disclosure of information by the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. 
8. The issuer, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund shall submit a "Report on Management 
Systems of Infrastructure Fund Issuer, etc." predetermined by the Exchange within three 
months after the business period or computation period pertaining to said infrastructure fund 
has passed. In this case, said issuer, etc. shall agree to the Exchange’s making said report 
available for public inspection. 
9.  In addition to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, in cases where an issuer, etc. of a 
listed infrastructure fund falls under any of each item below and if a change occurs in the 
details of the "Report Concerning the Management System, etc. of an Issuer, etc. of an 
Infrastructure Fund" due to the matters prescribed in each such item, it shall submit the 
"Report Concerning the Management System, etc. of an Issuer, etc. of an Infrastructure 
Fund" after the change without delay. In this case, said issuer, etc. shall agree that the 
Exchange makes said report after the change for public inspection. 
(1) Where a change occurs in a management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure 
fund; 
(2) Where a management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund conducts a 
merger or other acts specified in the Enforcement Rules (referred to as the "merger, etc." 
in Rule 1520, Paragraph 1, Item (1), b. (d) and (e))  
(3) Where a change occurs in a parent company of a management company pertaining to a 
listed infrastructure fund. 
10. The provisions of Rule 401, Rule 411-2, Rules 413 to 414, and Rule 416 shall be applied 
mutatis mutandis to disclosures pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, and 
the provisions of Rule 415 and Rule 417 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the issuer, etc. 
of the listed infrastructure fund, respectively. 
 
Rule 1514.  Submitting Documents, etc. 
1. The issuer, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund must submit all documents, etc. to the 
Exchange as specified by the Enforcement Rules. 
2. In addition to the preceding paragraph, the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. must submit 
any documents that the Exchange requests for a good reason without delay, and agree to the 
Exchange’s making some documents available for public inspection, if deemed necessary. 
 
Rule 1515.  Deleted. 
 
Rule 1516.  Selection of Agents of Issuers, etc. 
The issuer, etc. of a listed foreign infrastructure fund or a listed foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificate must, pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, select an 
entity that has an address or residence in Japan with the authority to act as a proxy or 
representative of the issuer, etc. of the listed foreign infrastructure fund or the listed foreign 
infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate with respect to all acts in relation to the 
Exchange. 
 
Rule 1517.  Effective Date, etc. of Splits of Investment Units or Beneficiary Rights 
1. Where the investment corporation that is the issuer of a listed domestic infrastructure fund 
in the form of investment securities or the management company of a listed domestic 
infrastructure fund in the form of entrusted securities splits an investment unit or beneficiary 
right pertaining to the listed domestic infrastructure fund, said investments corporation or 
management company shall set the split to go into effect on the day following the record 
date for determining the entities that are to receive the rights pertaining to said split. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
254 
2. Where certain requirements, such as the need for resolutions through general investors 
meeting or resolutions in writing from beneficiaries, need to be satisfied in the case 
prescribed in the preceding paragraph, the investment corporation that is the listed domestic 
infrastructure fund issuer in the form of an investment security or the management company 
of the listed infrastructure fund in the form of a beneficiary certificate shall set a day that 
falls on or after the third day (excluding non-business days) counting from the day on which 
the split is determined to be conducted as the record date for fixing the entities eligible for 
rights pertaining to said split. 
 
Rule 1518.  Code of Conduct Regarding Listing Infrastructure Funds 
1. The issuer, etc. of a listed infrastructure fund must not conduct a gratis allotment of new 
investment unit subscription warrant securities, or reverse split or split of investment units 
or beneficiary rights pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund that are likely to disrupt the 
secondary market or undermine the interests of investors or beneficiaries. 
2. The provisions of Rule 442 and Rule 449 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the entities 
specified in Rule 1501, Paragraph 1, Items (1) and (3), and the provisions of Rule 443 and 
Rule 450 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the issuer, etc. of a listed infrastructure fund. 
3. The issuer, etc. of a listed infrastructure fund shall make efforts to record information 
pertaining to assets under management, etc. prescribed by laws and regulations deemed 
necessary by the Exchange in the statutory disclosure documents (meaning documents to be 
prepared or disclosed in accordance with laws and regulations), and documents (limited to 
those the Exchange makes available for public inspection) whose information is disclosed 
pursuant to the provisions in Rule 1513 or documents submitted to the Exchange. 
 
Rule 1519.  Ensuring Effectiveness 
The provisions of Rules 503 to 506, and Rules 508 to 511 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
ensuring the effectiveness of listed infrastructure funds. 
 
Rule 1520.  Delisting Criteria 
1. The delisting criteria pertaining to the issuer, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund shall be set 
forth pursuant to the provisions of the following items in accordance with the classification 
of the listed infrastructure fund referred to in said items. In this case, each such item is 
interpreted as per the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Investment securities: 
The delisting criteria shall be set forth pursuant to the provisions of the following a. or 
b.: 
a. If the following (a) or (b) applies to the investment corporation that is the issuer of the 
listed infrastructure, the Exchange delists said listed infrastructure fund: 
(a) Any of the reasons for dissolution referred to in Article 143 of the Investment Trust Act 
applies to the issuer of the listed infrastructure fund; or 
(b) The issuer of the listed infrastructure fund has fallen into a situation that requires 
bankruptcy proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings pursuant to laws and regulations 
or a situation equivalent thereto; 
b. If any of the following (a) through  (g) applies to the management company pertaining 
to the listed infrastructure fund, said listed infrastructure fund will be delisted; provided, 
however, that the same shall not apply to the cases where the Enforcement Rules specify 
otherwise.: 
(a) The registration of a financial instruments business expires pursuant to the provisions 
of Article 50-2, Paragraph 2 of the Act; 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
255 
(b) The registration of a financial instruments business is cancelled pursuant to the 
provisions of Article 52, Paragraph 1 or Article 54 of the Act; 
(c) The management company ceases to be a member of the Investment Trusts Association, 
Japan (General Incorporated Association); 
(d) The management company ceases to be the management company pertaining to said 
listed infrastructure fund (excluding cases due to the merger, etc.);(e) Where the merger, 
etc. is conducted (excluding the cases where such merger, etc. is conducted within such 
asset management company only or only between such asset management company and 
an asset management company which is currently entrusted with business pertaining to 
asset management of other listed investment corporation ), and the Exchange deems that 
the business operating system pertaining to management of assets of such investment 
corporation before conducting such merger, etc. is not substantially survived after 
conducting such merger, etc.  
(f) Where a change occurs in a parent company of said management company and the 
Exchange deems that the business operating system pertaining to management of assets 
of such investment corporation before occurrence of such a change is not substantially 
survived after occurrence of such a change; or 
(g) The management company ceases to be the entity that carries out investment 
management business upon receiving the alteration registration prescribed in Article 31, 
Paragraph 4 of the Act; 
(2) Beneficiary certificates 
The delisting criteria shall be set forth pursuant to the provisions in the following a. or b.: 
a. Where the management company pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund falls under 
either (a) through (c) or (g) of the preceding b., the listed infrastructure fund will be 
delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where another 
management company has taken over the business that the management company 
pertaining to said infrastructure fund has carried out and that said other management 
company submits the "Listing Agreement for an Infrastructure Fund" and where the listed 
infrastructure fund complies with the items in Rule 1506, Paragraph 1 
b. Where the business license or authorization concerning the operation of a trust business 
is revoked from a trustee pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund, the listed infrastructure 
fund will be delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where 
another trustee has taken over the business that the trustee pertaining to the listed 
infrastructure fund has carried out and that said other trustee submits the "Listing 
Agreement for an Infrastructure Fund" and where the listed infrastructure fund complies 
with the items in Rule 1506, Paragraph 1   
(3) Foreign investment securities, etc. 
The delisting criteria for a foreign investment security or a foreign investment security that 
is the entrusted security of a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate shall 
be set forth pursuant to the provisions of the following a. or b.: 
a. If the following (a) or (b) applies to the foreign investment corporation that is the issuer 
of the listed infrastructure fund, said listed infrastructure fund will be delisted. 
(a) Any of the reasons for dissolution, in accordance with laws and regulations, apply to 
the foreign investment corporation; or 
(b) The issuer of the listed infrastructure fund has fallen into a state where bankruptcy 
proceedings or rehabilitation proceedings pursuant to laws and regulations are inevitable 
or into a situation equivalent thereto 
b. If the following (a) or (b) applies to the management company pertaining to a listed 
infrastructure fund, the listed infrastructure fund will be delisted; provided, however, that 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
256 
the same shall not apply to cases where another management company has taken over the 
business that the management company had carried out and said other management 
company submits the "Listing Agreement for an Infrastructure Fund" and where the listed 
infrastructure fund complies with the items in Rule 1506, Paragraph 1: 
(a) The licenses, permissions, or registrations, etc. required for operations pertaining to 
asset management have expired, have been cancelled, or have changed pursuant to laws 
and regulations, and the management company has ceased operations as a management 
company; or 
(b) The management company has ceased to be the management company pertaining to the 
listed infrastructure fund; 
(4) Beneficiary certificates, etc. of a foreign investment trust 
A beneficiary certificate of a foreign investment trust or a beneficiary certificate that is an 
entrusted security of a foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate falls under 
the following a. or b.: 
a. If licenses, permissions, or registrations, etc. required for operations pertaining to asset 
management of the management company pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund have 
expired, have been cancelled, or have changed pursuant to laws and regulations, and the 
management company has ceased operations as a management company, the listed 
infrastructure fund will be delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to 
cases where another management company has taken over the business that the 
management company had carried out and said other management company submits the 
"Listing Agreement for an Infrastructure Fund" and where the listed infrastructure fund 
complies with the items in Rule 1506, Paragraph 1: 
b. If business licenses or authorizations concerning the operation of the trust business are 
revoked from the trustee pertaining to a listed infrastructure fund, the listed infrastructure 
fund will be delisted; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where 
another trustee has taken over the business that the trustee pertaining to said listed 
infrastructure fund had carried out and said other trustee submits the "Listing Agreement 
for an Infrastructure Fund" and where the listed infrastructure fund complies with the 
items in Rule 1506, Paragraph 1:   
2. The delisting criteria for an issue of the listed infrastructure fund shall be set forth pursuant 
to the provisions in the following items in accordance with the classification of the listed 
infrastructure fund referred to in each item. In this case, each provision will be interpreted 
as per the Enforcement Rules: 
(1) Domestic infrastructure funds 
Where any of the following a. through t. applies to the domestic infrastructure fund; 
a. The ratio of the amount of infrastructure assets, etc. to the total amount of assets under 
management, etc. has fallen below 70% as of the end of every business period or every 
computation period pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund, and fails to reach 70% or 
higher within one (1) year; 
b. The ratio of the total amount of infrastructure assets, etc., infrastructure-related securities 
and current assets to the total amount of assets under management, etc. has fallen below 
95% as of the end of every business period or every computation period pertaining to the 
listed infrastructure fund, and fails to reach 95% or higher within one (1) year; 
c. The distribution of money or distribution of revenue pertaining to a given business period 
or a given computation period has not been made, and distribution of money or 
distribution of revenue is not made within one (1) year (excluding cases specified by the 
Enforcement Rules); 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
257 
d. Total net assets have fallen below JPY 500 million as of the end of every business period 
or every computation period pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund, and fails to reach 
JPY 500 million or more within one (1) year; 
e. Total assets have fallen below JPY 2.5 billion as of the end of every business period or 
every computation period pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund, and fails to reach 
JPY 2.5 billion or more within one (1) year; 
f. The number of listed investment units (excluding the number of own investment units that 
are own investment units scheduled for disposal as per a resolution for the disposal of 
said own investment units) or the number of units of listed beneficiary rights is less than 
4,000; 
g. Trading volume for one (1) year prior to the end of December of every year falls under 20 
units; 
h. There are delays in submission of an annual securities report or a semiannual securities 
report: 
For cases where the issuer fails to submit to the Prime Minister, etc. an annual securities 
report or a semiannual securities report to which an audit report or an interim audit report 
that has been prepared by two or more certified public accountants or an audit firm in 
accordance with Article 3, Paragraph 1 of the Cabinet Office Order on Audit Certification 
within a month after the period specified in Article 24, Paragraph 1 or Article 24-5, 
Paragraph 1 of the Act passes (within three months in the event that said delay in 
submission is due to reasons, such as an act of providence, that are not attributable to the 
issuer of the listed infrastructure fund); 
i. The following (a) or (b) applies:  
(a) There is a false statement in an annual securities report, etc. pertaining to the listed 
infrastructure fund and, in addition, the Exchange deems that its effect is material; or 
(b) Concerning audit reports attached to financial statements, etc. or interim audit reports 
attached to interim financial statements, etc. pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund, 
a certified public accountant, an audit firm, or an entity equivalent thereto states an 
"adverse opinion" or "disclaimer of opinion" (excluding cases specified by the 
Enforcement Rules; hereinafter the same in this (b)) in the audit report, or an "opinion 
that the interim financial statements, etc. do not provide useful information" or 
"disclaimer of opinion" in the interim audit report, and the Exchange deems it clear that 
it is difficult to maintain the order of the market unless said listed infrastructure fund is 
immediately delisted; 
j. Where the Enforcement Rules identifies them as cases where the entity who had entered 
into a listing agreement pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund has committed a 
material breach of the listing agreement; said entity has committed a material breach as 
to matters taken on oath in the Written Oath submitted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
1504, Paragraph 1; or, the entity who must enter into a listing agreement ceases to be a 
party to the listing agreement; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases 
where the proviso in Item (1), b. of Paragraph 1, the proviso in Item (2), a. of the same 
paragraph, the proviso in Item (3), b. of the same paragraph, or the proviso in Item (4), a. 
of the same paragraph apply to said entity (excluding the investment corporation in cases 
where said listed infrastructure fund is in the form of investment securities, and the 
management company in cases where said listed infrastructure fund is in the form of 
beneficiary certificates); 
k. It is possible to refund investment units upon an investor’s request or to cancel a trust 
agreement that is still valid upon a beneficiary’s request due to changes in the certificate 
of incorporation of an investment corporation or in the basic terms and conditions of an 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
258 
investment trust; 
l. The business period or computation period is less than six months due to changes in the 
certificate of incorporation of the investment corporation or the basic terms and 
conditions of the investment trust; 
m. No clause pertaining to operator selection policy is included due to changes in the 
certificate of incorporation of the investment corporation or the basic terms and 
conditions of the investment trust; 
n. One of the operators does not satisfy the operator selection criteria as of the end of a 
business period or computation period pertaining to the listed infrastructure fund, and said 
operator does not meet the operator selection criteria even after one (1) year; 
o. The issue ceases to qualify for handling in the book-entry transfer operations by the 
designated book-entry transfer institution; 
p. The listed infrastructure fund is an investment security, and the administrative work 
relating to the investor register has not been entrusted to an institution approved by the 
Exchange as specified in Rule 1505, Paragraph 1, Item (2), l. or it has become certain that 
said administrative work will not be entrusted in the future; 
q. The listed infrastructure fund is in the form of a beneficiary certificate, and it is possible 
to carry out an additional trust pertaining to said investment trust due to changes in the 
basic terms and conditions of an investment trust even in cases where offering is made by 
submitting a security registration statement pursuant to the provisions of the Act; 
r. The listed infrastructure fund is in the form of a beneficiary certificate, and the investment 
trust agreement pertaining to said beneficiary certificate has expired; 
s. It is revealed that the issuer, etc. of the listed infrastructure fund has involvement with 
antisocial forces as specified in the Enforcement Rules, and the Exchange deems such 
situation to have considerably undermined confidence of investors or beneficiaries in the 
market of the Exchange; 
t. Other than the preceding a. to s., cases that the Exchange deems delisting appropriate in 
consideration of public interest or investor protection. 
(2) Foreign infrastructure funds 
Where the following  a. through d. apply to the foreign infrastructure fund; 
a.  a. through f, h. through n., and q. through t of the preceding item apply to the foreign 
infrastructure fund. In this case, "investment corporation" in j., k., l., and m. of the 
preceding item, "investment trust" in j., k., and q. of the same item, and "beneficiary 
certificate" in j., q., and r. of the same item are to be reworded as "foreign investment 
corporation", "foreign investment trust", and "foreign investment trust beneficiary 
certificate", respectively; 
b. The issue ceases qualify for handling in the book-entry transfer operations for foreign 
stocks, etc. by the designated book-entry transfer institution; 
c. It has been determined that said listed foreign infrastructure fund will be delisted from the 
foreign financial instruments exchange, etc., or the Exchange deems that it is difficult to 
immediately obtain quotations for said fund at the foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where the Exchange deems 
that delisting is inappropriate in consideration of reasons for delisting, etc. of said fund 
from said foreign financial instruments exchange, etc. and on other grounds such as the 
state of trading at the Exchange. 
d. The state of trading for said listed foreign infrastructure fund is deemed to have 
considerably deteriorated as of the end of a business period or computation period; 
(3) Foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificates 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
259 
Where any of the following a. or b. apply to the foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificate; 
a. Any of the following (a) through (c) apply to the foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificate; 
(a) a. through c, h. through j., o., s., and t. of Item (1) apply to the foreign infrastructure 
fund trust beneficiary certificate. In this case, "investment corporation" in j. of Item 
(1) is to be reworded as "foreign investment corporation that is the issuer of the foreign 
investment security that is an entrusted security of the listed foreign infrastructure fund 
trust beneficiary certificate"; 
(b) The state of trading for the listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary 
certificate is deemed to have considerably deteriorated as of the end of a business 
period or computation period; 
(c) The deposit agreement, etc. or other agreements prescribed in Rule 1505, Paragraph 
3, Item (7) terminate; provided however, that the same shall not apply to cases where 
said deposit agreement, etc. or any other agreement is terminated as a result of changes 
in the depository, etc. pertaining to the foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary 
certificate. 
b. Either of the following (a) or (b) applies to the foreign investment corporation or foreign 
investment trust that is the issuer of the foreign infrastructure fund that is an entrusted 
security of the listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate; 
(a) d., e., k. through n., q., and r. of Item (1) apply to the foreign infrastructure fund trust 
beneficiary certificate. In this case, "investment corporation" in k., l., and m. of Item 
(1), "investment trust" in k., and q. of the same item, and "beneficiary certificate" in 
q., and r. of the same item are to be reworded as "foreign investment corporation", 
"foreign investment trust", and "foreign investment trust beneficiary certificate", 
respectively; 
(b) It has been determined that the foreign infrastructure fund that is in the form of a 
entrusted security of the listed foreign infrastructure fund trust beneficiary certificate 
will be delisted from the foreign financial instruments exchange, etc., or the Exchange 
deems that it is difficult to immediately obtain quotations for said fund at the foreign 
financial instruments exchange, etc.; provided, however, that the same shall not apply 
to cases where the Exchange deems that delisting is inappropriate in consideration of 
reasons for delisting, etc. of said fund at the foreign financial instruments exchange, 
etc., and on other grounds such as the state of trading at the Exchange. 
3. The provisions of Rule 605 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to examinations pertaining to 
delisting pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs. 
 
Rule 1521.  Special Provisions on Delisting Criteria 
For listed domestic infrastructure funds managed with the aim of having said listed domestic 
infrastructure funds satisfy the requirement prescribed in Article 39-32-3 (hereinafter referred 
to as "conduit requirements" in this item) of the Order for Enforcement of the Act on Special 
Measures Concerning Taxation (Cabinet Order No. 43 of 1957), the provisions of the preceding 
Rule, Paragraph 2, Item (1), a., b., d., and e, shall not apply to those listed domestic 
infrastructure funds (hereinafter referred to as "special provision infrastructure funds" in this 
item) that satisfy the requirements prescribed in the following items. In this case, each item will 
be interpreted as per the Enforcement Rules.  
(1) Documents specified by the Enforcement Rules as documents to be submitted for initial 
listing application have been submitted; 
(2) Documents specified by the Enforcement Rules as documents to be submitted for initial 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
260 
listing application cover matters specified by the Enforcement Rules; 
(3) Only assets under management, etc. (meaning "assets under management, etc. for special 
provision infrastructure fund" in Items (5) and (6)) specified in the Enforcement Rules have 
been put forth as assets under management, etc. that qualify for listing examination 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 1505, Paragraph 1, Item (2), a. and b.; 
(4) Documents specified in the Enforcement Rules have been disclosed within three months 
after each business period in a manner specified in Rule 414; 
(5) Assets other than assets under management, etc. for special provision infrastructure fund 
have not been acquired; provided, however, that the same shall not apply to cases where 
assets other than assets under management, etc. of special provision infrastructure fund 
must be acquired to meet the conduit requirements and where procedures referred to in the 
following a. and b. have been conducted; 
a. Prior to acquiring assets other than assets under management for special provision 
infrastructure fund, approval from the board of officers at the investment corporation has 
to be obtained; 
b. If it has been determined that assets other than assets under management, etc. for special 
provision infrastructure fund will be acquired, the details shall be disclosed immediately 
in a manner prescribed in Rule 414; 
(6) The certificate of incorporation covers matters referred to in the following a. and b. 
a. In principle, assets other than assets under management, etc. for special provision 
infrastructure fund shall not be acquired; 
b. Where assets other than asset sunder management, etc. of special provision infrastructure 
fund must be acquired to meet the conduit requirements, the procedures referred to in a. 
and b. of the preceding item shall be conducted; 
2. If the Exchange has confirmed that the special provision infrastructure fund does not satisfy 
the criteria prescribed in the provisions of Items (4) through (6) of the preceding paragraph, 
the Exchange shall immediately make a public announcement of said information; 
3. Any examination (that is conducted after the aforementioned announcement) for the purpose 
of confirming whether or not the listed domestic infrastructure fund satisfies the delisting 
criteria pursuant to the preceding paragraph shall be carried out pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the preceding rule notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 
1. 
 
Rule 1522.  Duty to Cooperate with the Exchange in Deciding Appropriateness of 
Delisting 
1. Where the Exchange deems it necessary for the purpose of deciding the appropriateness of 
delisting for a listed infrastructure fund to request certified public accountants, etc. who 
perform audit certification for financial statements, etc. or interim financial statements, etc. 
(including those who have previously been said certified public accountants, etc.; the same 
shall apply in the following paragraph) to provide explanations or other information 
regarding a particular issue, the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. shall cooperate in this 
process. 
2. Where the Exchange makes a request to a listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. for the purpose 
of requiring said certified public accountants, etc. prescribed in the preceding paragraph to 
provide explanations or other information regarding a particular issue pursuant to the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph, the listed infrastructure fund issuer, etc. shall each 
promptly submit a document stating that it agrees to said certified public accountants, etc. 
providing said explanation or other information. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
261 
Rule 1523.  Delisting Date 
If the Exchange has determined to delist a listed infrastructure fund, the delisting date shall be 
determined pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules. 
 
Rule 1524.  Designation of Securities Under Supervision 
If a listed infrastructure fund is likely to be delisted, the Exchange can designate, pursuant to 
the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, the listed infrastructure fund as a Security Under 
Supervision in order to make investors aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1525.  Designation of Securities to be Delisted 
If the Exchange has determined to delist a listed infrastructure fund, the Exchange can designate, 
pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement Rules, the listed infrastructure fund as a Security 
to Be Delisted for a period until the day before the delisting date in order to make investors 
aware of that fact. 
 
Rule 1526.  Fees Relating to Listing, etc. 
The issuer of an infrastructure fund or new investment unit subscription warrant securities and 
the issuer of a listed infrastructure fund pertaining to an initial listing application must pay the 
listing examination fee, preliminary examination fee, an examination fee pertaining to delisting, 
initial listing fee, additional listing fee at the time of additional issuance or entrustment, annual 
listing fee, and other fees relating to listing, etc. pursuant to the provisions of the Enforcement 
Rules. 
 
Rule 1527.  Succession at the Time of Technical Listing 
When applying the provisions prescribed by the Enforcement Rules to a listed domestic 
infrastructure fund-issuing investment corporation in cases where the infrastructure fund-
issuing investment corporation is listed as per the provisions in Rule 1507 (including a listed 
infrastructure fund issued by the investment corporation and a management company pertaining 
to the listed infrastructure fund; the same shall apply in this rule), said listed infrastructure fund-
issuing investment corporation is handled the same way as an infrastructure fund investment 
corporation that was delisted as per the provisions in the same rule (including an infrastructure 
fund issued by the investment corporation and the management company pertaining to said 
infrastructure fund), with both investment corporations being deemed the same; provided, 
however, the same shall not apply if the Exchange deems it inappropriate. 
 
Rule 1528.  Mutatis Mutandis Application of Rules 
The provisions of Rules 424, 425, 429, 430, 606 and 610 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to 
infrastructure funds. 
 
 
Part 7 
Securities Issued by Japan Exchange Group 
 
Rule 1601.  Basic Principles 
The Exchange shall carry out business for listing securities issued by Japan Exchange Group, 
Inc. (hereinafter referred to as "JPX"), a subsidiary of which is the Exchange, as a market 
operator fairly and faithfully similarly for cases to securities pertaining to other listing 
application and other listed securities, and shall make efforts to ensure trustworthiness for 
investors.  
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
262 
 
Rule 1602.  Listing by Application for Approval 
Where the Exchange intends to list a security issued by JPX on the financial instruments 
exchange market operated by the Exchange and as specified in Article 2, Paragraph 17 of the 
Act (hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Market"), the Exchange shall file a listing approval 
application with the Prime Minister, etc. pursuant to the provisions of Article 124, Paragraph 1 
of the Act, where it complies with the criteria pertaining to initial listing specified by these 
Regulations.  
 
Rule 1603.  Documents to be Submitted Pertaining to Initial Listing Application 
The Exchange shall submit a copy of documents submitted to the Exchange by JPX pursuant 
to the provisions of Rule 204, Paragraph 11 to the Commissioner of the Financial Services 
Agency without delay after submission. 
 
Rule 1604.  Listing Supervision, etc. 
1. Where JPX discloses corporate information pursuant to the provisions of Rules 402 through 
405, Rules 408 through 411, Rules 415, and Rule 806, the Exchange shall report the details 
to the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency without delay: 
2. Where any of the following items is met, the Exchange shall promptly report to the 
Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency: 
(1) Where the Exchange designates a listed domestic stock whose issuer is JPX as a Security 
on Special Alert pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 1; 
(2) Where the Exchange has de-designated JPX's stock as a Security on Special Alert 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 503, Paragraph 4, Item 1, Paragraph 7, Item 1, 
Paragraph 10, Item 1, a. or Item 2, or Paragraph 13; 
(3) Where JPX submits the Improvement Report pursuant to the provisions of Rule 504, 
Paragraph 3 (including cases where applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 505, Paragraph 7, 
Rule 505-2, Paragraph 5, or Rule 506, Paragraph 2) and Rule 507, Paragraph 1; 
(4) Where JPX submits the Improvement Status Report specified in Rule 505, Paragraph 1 
or Rule 505-2, Paragraph 1 pursuant to the provisions of Rule 505, Paragraph 3 (including 
cases where applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 505-2, Paragraph 3); 
(5) Where the Exchange makes a public announcement concerning JPX pursuant to the 
provisions of Rule 508, Paragraph 1; or 
(6)  Where the Exchange claims payment of a listing agreement violation penalty from JPX 
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 509, Paragraph 1. 
 
Rule 1605.  Application for Delisting Approval 
1. Where the Exchange intends to delist a listed security issued by JPX pursuant to the 
provisions of these Regulations, the Exchange shall file an application for delisting approval 
with the Prime Minister, etc. pursuant to the provisions of Article 126, Paragraph 2 the Act. 
2. The Exchange shall report the results of an examination pertaining to delisting of a security 
issued by JPX to the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency every six months; 
provided, however, that where the result of such examination is likely to fall under the 
delisting criteria specified by these Regulations, the Exchange shall immediately report to 
the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency.  
 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
 
Article 1.  Implementation Date 
These amendments shall be implemented on April 4, 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
263 
"implementation date"); except the revised provisions of Rule 311, Paragraph 1, Items 4 and 
5, Paragraph 4, Item (2) of the same rule, Rule 408, Item (1), Item (3), Item (5) and Item (6), 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (4), Rule 603, Paragraph 1, Items 4, 5 and 5-2, Rule 604-2, 
Paragraph 1, Items 1 and 2, Rule 604-3, Item (1), Rule 604-4, Paragraph 1, Items 1 and 3, 
Rule 604-5, Item (1), Rule 707, Paragraph 3, Rule 710, Rule 717, Rule 721, Paragraph 2, 
and Rule 724, which shall be implemented on June 30, 2021. 
 
Article 2.  Transition Measures Relating to Listing on New Market Segments of Already 
Listed Issues, etc. 
 1. The issuer of a stock, etc. that is listed on the Main Markets, Mothers, or JASDAQ 
(hereinafter referred to as the "old market segments") as of December 30, 2021 (such stocks, 
etc. are hereinafter referred to as "already listed issues") shall select any of the Standard 
Market, Prime Market or Growth Market (hereinafter referred to as the "new market 
segments") to list on by submitting the documents referred to in each of the following items, 
depending on the relevant item, between September 1, 2021 to December 30, 2021 
(hereinafter referred to as the "selection period"), or by the listing date if the stock, etc. is to 
be listed between the day following the last day of the selection period and the day before 
the implementation date.  
(1) Selections of the Standard Market or Prime Market 
  a. A Market Selection Application Form predetermined by the Exchange 
  b. A document that verifies the board's decision on the segment selection 
(2) Selections of the Growth Market 
a. Documents referred to in the preceding item 
b. Commitment, in the format predetermined by the Exchange, to carry out ongoing 
disclosure on progress of business plans and matters related to high growth potential  
2. In cases where any of the following items are applicable, the issuer of an already listed issue 
shall be required to disclose the matters referred to in each applicable item by the last day 
of the selection period.  
(1) Where the Exchange deems it necessary taking into consideration the status of the 
already listed issue as of June 30, 2021 
A plan as specified in revised Rule 501, Paragraph 3 or Rule 502, Paragraph 3; 
provided, however, that "initiatives and implementation date thereof for 
the purpose of meeting the criteria within the period specified by the Enforcement 
Rules" in the same paragraph shall be "initiatives and implementation date thereof 
for the purpose of meeting said criteria." 
(2) Where the Growth Market is selected and the Exchange deems it necessary 
Matters related to business plans and growth potential as specified in the revised Rule 
408-2. 
3. For the selection pursuant to Paragraph 1, in cases where any of the following items are 
applicable, the issuer of an already listed issue shall be required to meet the criteria specified 
in each applicable item. In this case, notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1, said 
issuer shall submit the documents specified in revised Rule 306 to the Exchange.  
(1) Where the issuer of a stock, etc. listed on Mothers or JASDAQ (limited to where the 
sub-division is JASDAQ Growth) selects the Standard Market 
Revised Rules 205, 206 and 207 
(2) Where the issuer of a stock, etc. listed on the Second Section, a stock, etc. listed on the 
First Section that falls under any of pre-revision Rule 311, Paragraph 1, Items 1 through 
3, or a stock, etc. listed on Mothers or JASDAQ selects the Prime Market 
Revised Rules 211, 212, and 213 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
264 
(3) Where an issuer of a stock, etc. listed on the Main Markets or JASDAQ (limited to 
where the sub-division is JASDAQ Standard) selects the Growth Market 
Revised Rules 217, 218 and 219   
4. For stocks, etc. which are already listed issues whose issuers do not select any of the new 
market segments within the selection period pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 1 (or by 
the day specified by the Exchange for a stock, etc. whose issuer has undergone an 
examination for transfer of listing market, transfer of sub-division or assignment to the First 
Section as of the final day of the selection period), the Exchange shall deem that the issuer 
has decided to select the new market segment specified in whichever of the following items 
corresponds to the old market segment on which said stock, etc. is listed.  
(1) The Main Markets or JASDAQ (limited to where the sub-division is JASDAQ Standard): 
Standard Market 
(2) Mothers or JASDAQ (limited to where the sub-division is JASDAQ Growth) 
Growth Market 
5.  Based on the selection pursuant to Paragraph 1 through the preceding paragraph, the 
Exchange shall decide the new market segment on which an already listed issue (including 
stocks, etc. that are listed between the day following the last day of the selection period 
and the day before the implementation date; the same shall apply in this paragraph and the 
following paragraph) is to be listed, and list said already listed issue and all the listed 
stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by the issuer of said already listed issue 
on said new market segment, effective on the implementation date.   
6. The Exchange shall deem that an already listed issue that is listed on a new market segment 
pursuant to the provision of the preceding paragraph has been listed since the day when it 
was initially listed on its old market segment. 
7. In cases where a stock, etc. is designated as a Security to Be Delisted due to the delisting 
criteria of its old market segment as of the day before the implementation date, it shall be 
listed on its new market segment only from the implementation date to the day before the 
delisting day as specified by the Exchange at the time of designation. 
8. In cases where a stock, etc. is designated as a Security Under Supervision due to the delisting 
criteria of its old market segment (excluding the criteria in pre-revision Rule 601, Paragraph 
1, Item (3) (including cases pursuant to Rules 602, 603 and 604)) as of the day before the 
implementation date (excluding stocks, etc. which were designated pursuant to pre-revision 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item1, Item (2), a. or b (including cases pursuant to Rule 602) or 
pre-revision Rule 603, Paragraph 1, Item (1), Item (2), a. or b. (including cases pursuant to 
Rule 604) and met the continued listing criteria of the destination new market segment 
(limited to criteria in revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), a., b (a) or (b), Item (2), a., b 
(a) or (b), or Item (3), a., b (a) or (b) (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1 and 
cases applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of each item of Rule 4, Paragraph 
4 of the Supplementary Provisions) as of the record date, etc. immediately before the 
implementation date), it shall be, as a general rule, designated as a Security Under 
Supervision pursuant to the delisting criteria of its new market segment on the 
implementation date. In this case, said stock, etc. shall be treated as having been designated 
as a Security Under Supervision pursuant to the delisting criteria of the new market segment 
as of the date of designation pursuant to the delisting criteria of the old market segment.  
9. In cases where, as of the day before the implementation date, a stock, etc. was under a grace 
period pursuant to the delisting criteria of its old market segment (excluding cases where a 
stock, etc. was under a grace period pursuant to pre-revision Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item 
(1), Item (2), a. or b. (including cases pursuant to Rule 602) or pre-revision Rule 603, 
Paragraph 1, Item (1), Item (2), a., or b. (including cases pursuant to Rule 604) and met the 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
265 
continued listing criteria of its destination new market segment (limited to criteria in revised 
Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), a. b (a) or (b) , Item (2), a., b (a) or (b), or Item (3), a., b 
(a) or (b) (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1 and cases applied with 
rewording pursuant to the provisions of each item of Rule 4, Paragraph 4 of the 
Supplementary Provisions) as of the record date, etc. immediately before the 
implementation date)), or the Exchange had deemed less than one (1) year before the 
implementation date that the criteria pertaining to initial listing prescribed in pre-revision 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (1)2, b. (including cases pursuant to Rules 602 through 604-5) 
were not met, said stock, etc. shall, as a general rule, fall under an improvement period or 
grace period pursuant to the delisting criteria of its new market segment as of the 
implementation date. In this case, the Exchange shall deem that said stock, etc. has been 
under an improvement period or grace period pursuant to the delisting criteria of its new 
market segment since the day when said stock, etc. fell under the grace period, etc. pursuant 
to the delisting criteria of its old market segment.  
10. In cases where the market capitalization, as specified in revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item 
(3), d., of a company listed on Mothers falls below JPY 500 million as of the end of the 
business year of said company that falls between June 30, 2021 and the day before the 
implementation date (limited to companies listed for 10 years or more), the stock, etc. of 
said company shall, as a general rule, fall under an improvement period related to revised 
Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. as of the implementation date (excluding cases where 
the stock, etc. is listed on either the Standard Market or Prime Market as of the 
implementation date). In this case, the Exchange shall deem that said stock, etc. has been 
under an improvement period related to the same d. since the day following the day when 
the market capitalization has fallen below JPY 500 million.  
11. In cases where a stock, etc. was under a grace period pursuant to the reassignment criteria 
from the First Section to the Second Section as of the day before the implementation date 
(excluding cases where said stock, etc. met the continued listing criteria of its destination 
new market segment (limited to criteria in revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), a, b (a) 
or (b), Item (2), a, b (a) or (b), or Item (3), a, b (a) or (b) (including cases pursuant to Rule 
502, Paragraph 1 and cases applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of each item 
of Rule 4, Paragraph 4 of the Supplementary Provisions) as of the record date, etc. 
immediately before the implementation date), said stock, etc., shall as a general rule, fall 
under an improvement period pursuant to the delisting criteria of its new market segment as 
of the implementation date. In this case, the Exchange shall deem that said stock has been 
under an improvement period pursuant to the delisting criteria of its new market segment 
since the day when it fell under the grace period pursuant to the reassignment criteria from 
the First Section to the Second Section.  
12. In cases where a stock, etc. was under a grace period pertaining to transfer of listing market 
due to an absorption-type merger, etc. under its old market segment as of the day before 
the implementation date, it shall fall under a grace period pertaining to transfer of market 
segment due to an absorption-type merger, etc. under its new market segment as of the 
implementation date. In this case, the Exchange shall deem that said stock, etc. has fallen 
under the grace period pertaining to transfer of market segment due to an absorption-type 
merger, etc. under its new market segments since the day when it fell under the grace 
period pertaining to transfer of listing market due to an absorption-type merger, etc. under 
its old market segment.  
13. In cases where the issuer of a stock, etc. listed on Mothers or JASDAQ (limited to where 
the sub-division is JASDAQ Growth) falls under either of the cases referred to in the 
following items, the Exchange shall deem that said issuer has implemented the holding of 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
266 
briefing sessions and other actions as prescribed in each paragraph of pre-revision Rule 
421-2, the development of a medium-term management plan and other actions prescribed 
in each paragraph of pre-revision Rule 421-3 , and holding of briefings for investors and 
other actions prescribed in pre-revision Rule 421-4. 
(1) Where said issuer has disclosed the matters referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (2) 
(including cases where disclosure has been made pursuant to the provisions of Rule 408-
4) 
(2) Where Paragraph 3, Item (1) or Item (2) is applicable and the Exchange deems that 
said issuer has met the listing examination criteria of the Standard Market or Prime 
Market.   
14. For a company listed on Mothers, in cases where the first day of the period in which it 
chooses a listing market as prescribed in pre-revision Rule 316 falls between the day 
following the last day of the selection period and the day before the implementation date, 
the Exchange shall deem that said company has applied for choice of its listing market 
pursuant to the provisions of pre-revision Rule 316 by making a selection as prescribed in 
Paragraph 1. In this case, Paragraph 3 shall be read as follows: 
3. For selection pursuant to Paragraph 1, in cases where the Prime Market is selected, the 
listing examination criteria of the Prime Market (meaning the criteria specified in 
revised Rules 211, 212 and 213) shall be met. In this case, notwithstanding the 
provisions of Paragraph 1, a company listed on Mothers shall submit documents 
specified in revised Rule 306 to the Exchange.  
 
Article 3. Transition Measures Relating to Initial Listing and Transfer of Market Segment, etc. 
1. The revised provisions of Part 2, Chapters 2 and 3, Rule 702, Rule 707, Paragraphs 1 and 2, 
Rules 708 through 714, and Rule 715, Paragraphs 1 through 3 shall apply to entities expected 
to carry out an initial listing, listing of new stock, etc., or transfer of market segment on or 
after the implementation date. The revised provisions of Rules 801 through 804, Rule 813, 
Rule 816, Rules 826 through 834, Rule 903, Rule 904, Rule 1103, Rule 1204, Rule 1205, 
Rule 1304, Rule 1404, Rule 1504, and Rule 1505 shall apply to entities expected to carry 
out an initial listing on or after the implementation date.  
2. For an entity who has actually made an application for initial listing, application for transfer 
of listing market, or application for transfer of sub-division on or to an old market segment 
as of the day before the implementation date, the Exchange shall deem that said entity has 
made an application for initial listing or transfer of market segment to the market segment 
referred to in each of the following items. In this case, submission documents pertaining to 
initial listing application or application for transfer of market segment and other related 
matters shall be specified by the Exchange. 
(1) An entity who has made an application for initial listing or transfer of listing market 
on/to the Main Markets (limited to those that have not made an application for assignment 
to the First Section) 
Standard Market 
(2) An entity who has made an application for initial listing or transfer of listing market 
on/to the Main Markets (limited to those that have made an application for assignment 
to the First Section) 
Prime Market 
(3) An entity who has made an application for initial listing or transfer of listing market 
on/to Mothers 
Growth Market 
(4) An entity who has made an application for initial listing, transfer of listing market or 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
267 
transfer of sub-division on/to JASDAQ (limited to where the sub-division is JASDAQ 
Standard) 
Standard Market  
(5) An entity who has made an application for initial listing, transfer of listing market or 
transfer of sub-division on/to JASDAQ (limited to where the sub-division is JASDAQ 
Growth) 
Growth Market 
3. For entities pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Exchange shall carry out examinations 
pertaining to initial listing applications, applications for transfer of listing market, and 
applications for transfer of sub-division based on the listing examination criteria or criteria 
for transfer of market segment of the new market segment referred to in the relevant item.  
4. An entity that has actually made an application for assignment to the First Section as of the 
day before the implementation date shall be treated as having made an application for 
transfer of market segment to the Prime Market to the Exchange as of the implementation 
date. In this case, submission documents pertaining to application for transfer of market 
segment and other related matters shall be specified by the Exchange. 
5. For entities pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Exchange shall carry out examinations 
pertaining to applications for assignment to the First Section based on the criteria for 
transfer of market segment to the Prime Market. 
 
Article 4. Transition Measures Relating to Continued Listing Criteria 
1. The revised provisions of Part 2, Chapter 5 (excluding Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c, 
Item (2), c., Item (3), c., or Item (4), c. (including cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
502)), Rule 707, Paragraph 3, Rule 715, Paragraph 4, Rule 808, Rule 808-2, Rule 821, Rule 
821-2, and Rules 835 through 838 shall apply to entities whose business year end is on or 
after the implementation date. The revised provisions of Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c., 
Item (2), c., Item (3), c., and Item (4), c. (including cases pursuant to the provisions of Rule 
502) shall be implemented from the end of June 2022 or end of December 2022. 
2. For application of the provisions of revised Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 and 4 and the provisions 
of revised Rule 502, Paragraphs 3 and 4 to cases where an issuer of the already listed issues 
(including stocks, etc. that were listed between the day following the last day of the selection 
period and the day before the implementation date; the same shall apply hereinafter in this 
rule) falls into a situation where it fails to meet the criteria specified in the revised Rule 501, 
Paragraph 1, Item (1), a. or b., Item (2), b. or c., Item (3), b. or d, or Item (4), a. or b. 
(including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1) (said criteria is hereinafter referred to 
as the "criteria subject to the transition measures") as of the last day of each business year 
that falls on or before February 28, 2025 (or the end of each December for Rule 501, 
Paragraph 1, Item (2), c. (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1); the same shall 
apply in the next paragraph), "initiatives and implementation date thereof for the purpose of 
meeting the criteria within the period specified by the Enforcement Rules" in Rule 501, 
Paragraph 3 or Rule 502, Paragraph 3 shall be "initiatives and implementation date thereof 
for the purpose of meeting the criteria," and "preceding paragraph" in Rule 501, Paragraph 
4 or Rule 502, Paragraph 4 shall be "preceding paragraph (including cases pursuant to Rule 
2, Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions)." 
3. An issuer of already listed issues shall submit documents stating the progress of the plan 
prescribed in the revised Rule 501, Paragraph 3 or Rule 502 Paragraph 3, applied with 
rewording pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, to the Exchange within 
three months from the end of each business year, from when it submits said plan until it 
meets the criteria subject to the transition measures. In this case, the Exchange deems that 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
268 
the issuer has submitted the plan to the Exchange if it has disclosed said document. 
4. Application of the provisions of revised Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (1) and revised Rule 
602, Paragraph 1, Item (1) to an issuer of already listed issues as of the last day of each 
business year that falls on or before February 28, 2026 (or the end of each June and 
December in cases where the revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), c. is applied 
(including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1) in place of revised Item (2), c. of the 
same paragraph) shall be handled as specified in each of the following items; provided, 
however, that this shall not apply to cases where the issuer has not submitted or disclosed 
documents stating the matters referred to in Rule 2, Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the 
Supplementary Provisions, documents specified in Rule 501, Paragraph 3 and Paragraph 4 
or Rule 502, Paragraph 3 and Paragraph 4, applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions 
of Paragraph 2 or Rule 2, Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations 
revised on April 1, 2023, or documents specified in the preceding paragraph (limited to the 
documents required to be submitted or disclosed pursuant to the provisions of each said 
paragraph). 
(1) In revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (1), which is applied pursuant to each item, "400" 
shall be "150," "2,000 units" shall be "500 units," and "JPY 1 billion" shall be "JPY 250 
million," and in place of b (c) of the same item, pre-revision Rule 601 Paragraph 1, Item 
(2), c. shall apply. 
(2) In revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (2), which is applied pursuant to each item, 
"20,000 units" shall be "10,000 units" and "JPY 10 billion" shall be JPY "1 billion," and in 
place of b (c) of the same item, pre-revision Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (2), c. shall apply 
Also, in place of revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (2), c., revised Rule 501, Paragraph 
1, Item (1), c. ("10 units or more" shall be "40 units or more") shall apply.   
(3) In revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), which is applied pursuant to each item, "1,000 
units" shall be "500 units," "JPY 500 million" shall be "JPY 250 million" and "JPY 4 billion 
or more" shall be "JPY 500 million or more," and in place of b (c) of the same item, pre-
revision Rule 603, Paragraph 1, Item (2), c. shall apply.  
(4) In revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (4), "400" shall be "150," "2,000 units" shall be 
"500 units" and "JPY 1 billion" shall be "JPY 250 million." 
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 1, in cases where an already listed issue is to 
be delisted due to an act referred to in the items of revised Rule 208, Rule 214 and Rule 220 
and a company specified in said items applies for a technical listing that is expected to take 
place by February 28, 2025, the application of the provisions of revised Rule 209, Rule 215 
and Rule 221 to the company applying for technical listing shall be as follows: in revised 
Rule 209, Paragraph 1, Item (3), "400" shall be "150,""2,000 units" shall be "500 units," 
"JPY 1 billion" shall be "JPY 250 million," and "25%" shall be "5%"; in revised Rule 215, 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), "20,000 units" shall be "10,000 units," "JPY 10 billion" shall be "JPY 
1 billion," and "35%" shall be "5%"; and in revised Rule 221, Paragraph 1, Item (3), "1,000 
units" shall be "500 units," JPY 500 million" shall be "JPY 250 million," and "25%" shall 
be "5%." 
6.  The provisions of Paragraphs 2 through 4, each paragraph of Rule 2, and Rule 3 of the 
Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations revised on April 1, 2023 shall apply mutatis 
mutandis to listed stock, etc. listed through a technical listing pursuant to the provisions 
of the preceding paragraph. 
7. The provisions of Paragraph 2 through the preceding paragraph shall not apply to the already 
listed issues referred to in the following items. 
(1) An issue listed in a new market segment selected in one of the cases referred to in each 
item of Rule 2, Paragraph 3 of the Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations revised on 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
269 
April 4, 2022; 
(2) An issue which has transferred its market segment after the implementation date 
(excluding an issue which has transferred its market segment to the Standard Market 
pursuant to the provisions Rule 2, Paragraph 1 of Supplementary Provisions of the 
Regulations revised on April 1, 2023); 
(3) An issue which has been designated as a Security on Alert as of the day before the 
implementation date or an issue which is designated as a Security on Alert (including 
Securities on Special Alert after the revisions as of January 15, 2024) on or after the 
implementation date. 
 
Article 5. Determination of Necessary Matters 
Matters not specified in the provisions of Rule 2 through the preceding rule shall be determined 
by the Exchange. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These amendments shall be implemented on June 27, 2022. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. The revised rules shall be implemented on December 26, 2022. 
2. The revised provisions of Rule 1305, Paragraph 1, Item (2) and Rule 1306, Paragraph 1, Item 
(3) shall apply to venture funds that make a listing application on or after the day when the 
revised rules are implemented. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. The revised rules shall be implemented on March 13, 2023. 
2. Notwithstanding the provision of the preceding paragraph, in cases where the Exchange 
deems it inappropriate to apply the provisions of amended Rules 201, 206, 306, and 307 to 
an entity who has made a preliminary application or application for transfer of market 
segment within one (1) year counting from the implementation date of the amended rules 
(hereinafter referred to as the "implementation date"), prior rules shall continue to govern 
the application of these rules to such an entity. 
3. Provisions of amended Rules 205, Item (3), and 217 Items 3 and 4 shall apply to an entity 
who makes an initial listing application (including a preliminary application), listing 
application of a stock, etc., or application for transfer of a market segment (including a 
preliminary application for transfer of a market segment) on or after the implementation date. 
 
Supplementary Provision  
The revised rules shall be implemented on April 1, 2023. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
Rule 1. The revised rules shall be implemented on April 1, 2023. 
 
Rule 2  
1. In cases where an issuer of a stock, etc. that was listed on the First Section as of April 3, 2022 
and is listed on the Prime Market as of the date of implementing the revised rules (hereinafter 
referred to as the "implementation date") selects to list on the Standard Market and submits, 
between the implementation date and September 29, 2023, the "application form for segment 
selection" prescribed by the Exchange, the Exchange shall transfer said listed stock, etc. and 
all the listed stocks, etc. and listed preferred stocks, etc. issued by the issuer of said listed 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
270 
stock, etc. to the Standard Market on October 20, 2023. 
2. In cases where an issuer of a stock, etc. that selects to list on the Standard Market pursuant 
to the provisions of the preceding paragraph and submits the "application form for segment 
selection" to the Exchange fails to meet the criteria specified in Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item 
(1) a. or b. (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1) as of the end of the most 
recent business year, said issuer shall be required to submit the plan prescribed in the revised 
Rule 501, Paragraph 3 or revised Rule 502, Paragraph 3, applied with rewording pursuant to 
the provisions of Rule 4, Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations 
revised on April 4, 2022, at the time of submitting said "application form for segment 
selection" to the Exchange. In this case, the Exchange deems that said plan has been 
submitted if said issuer has disclosed it. 
3. The provisions of Rule 4, Paragraph 3 of the revised Supplementary Provisions of the 
Regulations revised on April 4, 2022 shall apply mutatis mutandis to cases where the issuer 
of a listed issue submits the documents specified in Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 and 4 or Rule 
502, Paragraphs 3 and 4, applied with rewording pursuant to the provisions of the 
Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations revised on April 4, 2022. 
 
Rule 3. For companies which had specified a date after the last day of the earliest business year 
(or end of the earliest December for Rule 502, Paragraph 1, Item (2), c. (including cases 
pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1)) that falls on or after March 1, 2026 as their plan end 
date, in documents stating the matters referred to in Rule 2, Paragraph 2, Item (1) of the 
Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations revised on April 4, 2022 or documents 
specified in Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 and 4 or Rule 502, Paragraphs 3 and 4, applied with 
rewording pursuant to the provisions of Rule 4, Paragraph 2 of the same Supplementary 
Provisions, that were submitted or disclosed as of the day before the implementation date 
(such a company is hereinafter referred to as a "company disclosing a plan with an end date 
beyond the deadline"), if such a company falls into a situation where it fails to meet the 
criteria subject to the transition measures (limited to that stated in said documents), applied 
with rewording pursuant to the provisions of each item of Rule 4, Paragraph 4 of the 
Supplementary Provisions of the Regulations revised on April 4, 2022, as of the end of the 
earliest business year (or end of June and end of December for cases where Rule 501, 
Paragraph 1, Item (1), c. is applied (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1) in 
place of Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (2)., c.) that falls on or after March 1, 2026, the 
Exchange shall delist the securities issued by the company.  
 
Supplementary Provision 
The revised rules shall be implemented on June 30, 2023. 
  
Supplementary Provision 
The amended rules shall be implemented on October 10, 2023. 
 
Supplementary Provision 
1. The revised rules shall be implemented on January 15, 2024. 
2. The provision of the revised Rule 308 shall be applied to companies that will file applications 
for a market segment transfer on or after the date on which these revised rules are 
implemented (hereinafter referred to as the "implementation date"). 
3. Listed stocks, etc. that are designated as Securities on Alert on the day before the 
implementation date are regarded to have been designated as Securities on Special Alert as 
of the implementation date. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
271 
4. The provisions of the revised Rule 408-3, Rule 503, Paragraphs 1, 4, 5, 7 through 10, and 12, 
and Rule 601 shall be applied to listed companies that are issuers of listed stocks, etc. which 
are designated as Securities on Special Alert on or after the implementation date. With regard 
to listed companies that are issuers of listed stocks, etc. which are designated as Securities 
on Special Alert before the implementation date, the provisions then in force remain 
applicable. 
5. The provisions of the revised Rule 505-2 shall be applied to listed companies that are issuers 
of listed stocks, etc. which are de-designated as Securities on Special Alert on or after the 
implementation date 
 
Supplementary Provision 
The amended rules shall be implemented on March 29, 2024. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. These revisions shall take effect on April 1, 2024. 
2. The provisions of revised Rules 204, 205, 210, 216, 217, 829 and 945 shall apply to 
documents to be submitted, etc. and initial requirements pertaining to initial listing 
applications for cumulative quarterly accounting periods or interim accounting periods, or 
cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting periods or interim consolidated accounting 
periods, which include a quarterly accounting period or quarterly consolidated accounting 
period beginning on or after the effective date of the revised rules (hereinafter referred to as 
the "effective date"). Prior rules shall continue to govern documents to be submitted, etc. and 
initial requirements pertaining to initial listing applications for cumulative quarterly 
accounting periods or cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting periods which do not 
include a quarterly accounting period or quarterly consolidated accounting period beginning 
on or after the effective date. 
3. The provisions of revised Rule 304 (including cases as applied mutatis mutandis in Rule 842) 
shall apply to listed companies that have submitted a semiannual securities report or an 
annual securities report on or after the effective date. Prior rules shall continue to govern 
listed companies that have not submitted a semiannual securities report or an annual 
securities report on or after the effective date. 
4. Prior rules shall continue to govern the application of the provisions of pre-revision Rule 402, 
Item 1, aj. And ak-2, Item 2, t. through v. of the same rule, Rule 503, Paragraph 1, Item 2, b., 
Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item 7, Rule 912, Paragraph 1, item 2, a.(b), Rule 947, Paragraph 2, 
Item 1, l. and m-2, Item 2, i. and i-2 of the same rule and Rule 1107, Paragraph 2, Item 1, e-
2 (d) pertaining to quarterly securities reports prescribed in Article 24-4-7, Paragraph 1 of 
the Act before the amendment pursuant to the Act Partially Amending the Financial 
Instruments and Exchange Act (Act No. 79 of 2023, hereinafter referred to as the 
“Amendment Act”) (including those submitted pursuant to the provisions of Article 2, 
Paragraph 1 of the supplementary provisions of the Amendment Act). 
5. The provisions of revised Rules 402, Item 1, ak., 404, 416, 438, 501, 502, 715, 806, 836, 947, 
Paragraph 2, Item 1, m. and 951 shall apply to cumulative quarterly accounting periods and 
interim accounting periods, or cumulative quarterly consolidated accounting periods and 
interim consolidated accounting periods, which include a quarterly accounting period or 
quarterly consolidated accounting period beginning on or after the effective date. Prior rules 
shall continue to govern cumulative quarterly accounting periods or cumulative quarterly 
consolidated accounting periods which do not include a quarterly accounting period or 
quarterly consolidated accounting period beginning on or after the effective date. 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
272 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on February 28, 2025. 
 
Supplementary Provision 
1. The amended rules shall be implemented on April 1, 2025. 
2. For issuers of domestic stocks listed on the Prime Market as of March 14, 2025 which have 
submitted, between January 6, 2025 and March 14, 2025, a document predetermined by TSE 
stating an estimated implementation date for English disclosure, or issuers of domestic 
stocks that carry out a listing on the Prime Market between March 15, 2025 and the day 
before the implementation date of the revised rules which have submitted the same document 
by the date of their listing (if there arises any event that requires a change or correction to 
the contents of the document after it has been submitted, this is limited to those who have 
submitted a document with said change or correction), the revised provisions of Rule 436-4 
shall apply from April 1, 2026. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. These revisions shall take effect on April 1, 2025. 
2. The revised provisions of Rule 402, Item (1), as., Rule 402, Item (2), r-2., Rule 403, Item (1), 
t., and Rule 403, Item (2), m. may be omitted until March 31, 2026 for monetary loan 
agreements concluded before April 1, 2024. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. These revisions shall take effect on May 30, 2025. 
2. The revised provisions of Rules 1104 and 1104-2 shall apply to issues for which initial listing 
applications are made on or after the day on which these revised rules will be implemented 
(hereinafter referred to as the "implementation date"). 
3. The revised provisions of Rule 947-2, Paragraph 1, Item (4), Rule 1107-3, Paragraph 1, Item 
(5), and Rule 1107-4, Paragraph (1), Item (4) shall apply from the time of information 
provision when the details of the total expense ratios for computation periods that end on 
and after the implementation date are determined. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. These revisions shall take effect on July 22, 2025. 
2. The revised provisions of Rules 441 and 441-2 shall apply to cases where a listed company 
makes a decision to conduct an announcement of an opinion or representation to 
shareholders as prescribed in Rule 402, Item (1), y. relating to a takeover bid or any of the 
actions referred to in Item (1) or (2) of Rule 441, Paragraph 1, actions referred to in Item (3) 
of the same paragraph, or actions prescribed in each item of Rule 441-2, Paragraph 1 on or 
after the date on which these revised rules are implemented (hereinafter referred to as the 
"implementation date"). However, in cases where a listed company has made a decision to 
conduct an announcement of an opinion or representation to shareholders as prescribed in 
Rule 402, Item (1), y. relating to a takeover bid or any of the matters referred to in Item (1) 
or (2) of Rule 441, Paragraph 1 before the implementation date and will make a decision to 
conduct an action referred to in Item (3) of the same paragraph as one of a series of actions 
relating to said takeover bid after the implementation date, the prior rules shall continue to 
govern the application of these rules. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on September 16, 2025 and apply to issues expected to make 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
273 
an initial listing on or after this day. 
 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on October 31, 2025. 
 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
Rule 1. Implementation Date 
1. These revisions shall take effect on December 8, 2025 (hereinafter referred to as the 
"implementation date"). However, the revised provisions of Rule 449, Paragraph 2 will be 
implemented on May 25, 2026, and the provisions of the revised Rule 501, Paragraph 1, 
Item (3), d. (including cases pursuant to Rule 502, Paragraph 1, Item (3); the same shall 
apply hereinafter) will be implemented on March 1, 2030. 
2. The provisions of the revised Rule 308 shall apply to entities submitting applications for 
segment transfers to the Standard Market on and after the implementation date. 
 
Rule 2. Transitional Measures Regarding Continued Listing Criteria 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
274 
1. For application of the provisions of Rule 501, Paragraphs 3 and 4 and the provisions of 
Rule 502, Paragraphs 3 and 4 to cases where a company listed on the Growth Market as of 
February 28, 2030 falls into a situation that fails to meet Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), 
d. as of the end of the first business year ending on or after March 1, 2030, "initiatives and 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting the criteria within the period 
specified by the Enforcement Rules" in Rule 501, Paragraph 3 or Rule 502, Paragraph 3 
shall be reworded as "initiatives and implementation date thereof for the purpose of 
meeting the criteria," and "preceding paragraph" in Rule 501, Paragraph 4 or Rule 502, 
Paragraph 4 shall be reworded as "preceding paragraph (including cases pursuant to Rule 
2, Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions revised on December 8, 2025)." 
2. For application of the provisions of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item (1) and the provisions of 
Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (1) to a company listed on the Growth Market as of February 
28, 2030 that falls under any of the following items (hereinafter referred to as a "company 
under an extended conformance plan,") "within the period specified in the Enforcement 
Rules" in said items shall be reworded as "within the period indicated in the plan 
prescribed in Rule 2, Paragraph 2 of the Supplementary Provisions revised on December 8, 
2025;" provided, however, that this shall not apply after the end of the plan period 
prescribed in each said item. 
(1) As of the end of the first business year on or after March 1, 2030, a listed company 
that falls into a situation where it does not meet Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d., 
and that sets the final day of the plan prescribed in Rule 501, Paragraph 3 or Rule 
502, Paragraph 3, as applied with the rewording specified in the previous paragraph, 
on or after the day following the final day of the first business year ending on or after 
March 1, 2031 (excluding entities that meet Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. on or 
before the end of said plan)  
(2) As of the end of the first business year on or after March 1, 2030, a company that has 
been listed for less than five years, has a market capitalization of less than JPY 10 
billion as of the end of said business year, and has disclosed a plan within three 
months from the end of said business year that describes its initiatives and 
implementation date thereof for the purpose of meeting Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item 
(3), d. (excluding entities whose market capitalization reaches JPY 10 billion or more 
as of the end of each business year prior to the end of the period indicated in said 
plan) 
3. For a company under an extended conformance plan prescribed in the preceding 
paragraph, the period starting from the day after the day it fails to meet Rule 501, 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
275 
Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. and lasting for one year (or the end of the first business year 
after the day when one year lapses if the day when one year lapses does not fall on the 
end of the business year of the listed company) will be referred to as its "improvement 
period." The period starting from the day after the end of its improvement period and 
lasting until the end of its conformance plan prescribed in each applicable item will be 
referred to as its "grace period." 
4. The provisions of Paragraph 1 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to cases where a 
listed company referred to in Paragraph 2, Item (2) falls into a situation that fails to 
meet Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. 
5. If a company under an extended conformance plan falls into a situation that does not 
meet the prior Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. as of the end of each business year 
that falls on or after March 1, 2031, the Exchange shall delist the company. 
6. As of March 1, 2030, for application of the provisions of Rule 601, Paragraph 1, Item 
(1) and Rule 602, Paragraph 1, Item (1) to a listed company that falls under an 
improvement period prescribed in Rule 501, Paragraph 7 of the Enforcement Rule 
pertaining to the prior Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d. as of the end of the first 
business year that falls on or before March 1, 2030, "such criteria" in the same item 
shall be reworded as "prior Rule 501, Paragraph 1, Item (3), d." 
7. The provisions of each of the preceding paragraphs shall be applied mutatis mutandis 
to cases where an issuer of stocks, etc. listed on the Growth Market on February 28, 
2030 is to be delisted as a result of an action specified in the items under Rule 220 and 
where a company prescribed in each applicable item is listed pursuant to provisions 
for technical listing. 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Corporate Governance Code 
 
Section 1: Securing the Rights and Equal Treatment of Shareholders  
 
 
General Principle 1 
Companies should take appropriate measures to fully secure shareholder rights and develop an 
environment in which shareholders can exercise their rights appropriately and effectively. 
In addition, companies should secure effective equal treatment of shareholders. 
Given their particular sensitivities, adequate consideration should be given to the issues and 
concerns of minority shareholders and foreign shareholders for the effective exercise of shareholder 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
276 
rights and effective equal treatment of shareholders. 
Notes 
Companies have various stakeholders, including shareholders. Without appropriate cooperation with these 
stakeholders, it would be difficult for companies to achieve sustainable growth. Suppliers of capital are an 
important cornerstone, and shareholders are the primary starting point for corporate governance discipline. 
Companies should secure appropriate cooperation with shareholders and strive toward the achievement of 
sustainable growth by fully securing shareholder rights and providing for the smooth exercise thereof. 
In addition, the Companies Act requires companies to equally treat shareholders based on the class and 
number of shares they hold. Gaining broad confidence of shareholders that they receive equal treatment will 
also contribute to strengthening support from the suppliers of capital. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
277 
Principle 1.1 Securing the Rights of Shareholders 
Companies should take appropriate measures to fully secure shareholder rights, including voting 
rights at the general shareholder meeting. 
Supplementary Principles 
1.1.1  When the board recognizes that a considerable number of votes have been cast against a proposal 
by the company and the proposal was approved, it should analyze the reasons behind opposing votes 
and why many shareholders opposed, and should consider the need for shareholder dialogue and 
other measures. 
 
1.1.2  When proposing to shareholders that certain powers of the general shareholder meeting be delegated 
to the board, companies should consider whether the board is adequately constituted to fulfill its 
corporate governance roles and responsibilities. If a company determines that the board is indeed 
adequately constituted, then it should recognize that such delegation may be desirable from the 
perspectives of agile decision-making and expertise in business judgment. 
 
1.1.3 
Given the importance of shareholder rights, companies should ensure that the exercise of 
shareholder rights is not impeded. In particular, adequate consideration should be given to the special 
rights that are recognized for minority shareholders with respect to companies and their officers, 
including the right to seek an injunction against illegal activities or the right to file a shareholder 
lawsuit, since the exercise of these rights tend to be prone to issues and concerns. 
 
  
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
278 
Principle 1.2 Exercise of Shareholder Rights at General Shareholder Meetings 
Companies should recognize that general shareholder meetings are an opportunity for constructive 
dialogue with shareholders, and should therefore take appropriate measures to ensure the exercise of 
shareholder rights at such meetings. 
Supplementary Principles 
1.2.1 
Companies should provide accurate information to shareholders as necessary in order to facilitate 
appropriate decision-making at general shareholder meetings. 
 
1.2.2 
While ensuring the accuracy of content, companies should strive to send convening notices for 
general shareholder meetings early enough to give shareholders sufficient time to consider the 
agenda. During the period between the board approval of convening the general shareholder meeting 
and sending the convening notice, information included in the convening notice should be disclosed 
by electronic means such as through TDnet1 or on the company’s website. 
 
1.2.3 
The determination of the date of the general shareholder meeting and any associated dates should 
be made in consideration of facilitating sufficient constructive dialogue with shareholders and 
ensuring the accuracy of information necessary for such dialogue. 
 
1.2.4  Bearing in mind the number of institutional and foreign shareholders, companies should take steps 
for the creation of an infrastructure allowing electronic voting, including the use of the Electronic 
Voting Platform, and the provision of English translations of the convening notices of general 
shareholder meeting. 
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should make the Electronic Voting Platform 
available, at least to institutional investors. 
 
1.2.5  In order to prepare for cases where institutional investors who hold shares in street name express an 
interest in advance of the general shareholder meeting in attending the general shareholder meeting 
or exercising voting rights, companies should work with the trust bank (shintaku ginko) and/or 
custodial institutions to consider such possibility. 
 
 
Principle 1.3 Basic Strategy for Capital Policy 
Because capital policy may have a significant effect on shareholder returns, companies should 
explain their basic strategy with respect to their capital policy. 
 
 
Principle 1.4 Cross-Shareholdings 
When companies hold shares of other listed companies as cross-shareholdings 2 , they should 
disclose their policy with respect to doing so, including their policies regarding the reduction of cross-
shareholdings. In addition, the board should annually assess whether or not to hold each individual 
cross-shareholding, specifically examining whether the purpose is appropriate and whether the 
benefits and risks from each holding cover the company’s cost of capital. The results of this assessment 
should be disclosed. 
Companies should establish and disclose specific standards with respect to the voting rights as to 
their cross-shareholdings, and vote in accordance with the standards. 
 
1 TDnet: The Tokyo Stock Exchange operates a real-time internet service (Timely Disclosure network) 
which distributes the information provided by listed companies on a timely basis in accordance with its 
listing rules. 
2 Cross-shareholding: There are cases where listed companies hold the shares of other listed companies for 
reasons other than pure investment purposes, for example, to strengthen business relationships. Cross-
shareholdings here include not only mutual shareholdings but also unilateral ones. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
279 
Supplementary Principles 
1.4.1 
When cross-shareholders (i.e., shareholders who hold a company’s shares for the purpose of cross-
shareholding) indicate their intention to sell their shares, companies should not hinder the sale of the 
cross-held shares by, for instance, implying a possible reduction of business transactions. 
 
1.4.2 
Companies should not engage in transactions with cross-shareholders which may harm the interests 
of the companies or the common interests of their shareholders by, for instance, continuing the 
transactions without carefully examining the underlying economic rationale. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
280 
Principle 1.5 Anti-Takeover Measures 
Anti-takeover measures must not have any objective associated with entrenchment of the 
management or the board. With respect to the adoption or implementation of anti-takeover measures, 
the board and kansayaku3 should carefully examine their necessity and rationale in light of their 
fiduciary responsibility to shareholders, ensure appropriate procedures, and provide sufficient 
explanation to shareholders. 
Supplementary Principle 
1.5.1  In case of a tender offer, companies should clearly explain the position of the board, including any 
counteroffers, and should not take measures that would frustrate shareholder rights to sell their 
shares in response to the tender offer. 
 
 
Principle 1.6 Capital Policy that May Harm Shareholder Interests 
With respect to a company's capital policy that results in the change of control or in significant 
dilution, including share offerings and management buyouts, the board and kansayaku should, in order 
not to unfairly harm the existing shareholders’ interests, carefully examine the necessity and rationale 
from the perspective of their fiduciary responsibility to shareholders, should ensure appropriate 
procedures, and provide sufficient explanation to shareholders. 
 
 
Principle 1.7 Related Party Transactions 
When a company engages in transactions with its directors or major shareholders (i.e., related party 
transactions), in order to ensure that such transactions do not harm the interests of the company or the 
common interests of its shareholders and prevent any concerns with respect to such harm, the board 
should establish appropriate procedures beforehand in proportion to the importance and characteristics 
of the transaction. In addition to their use by the board in approving and monitoring such transactions, 
these procedures should be disclosed. 
 
 
 
 
3 Kansayaku: See Notes to the General Principle 4. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
281 
Section 2: Appropriate Cooperation with Stakeholders Other Than Shareholders 
 
 
General Principle 2 
Companies should fully recognize that their sustainable growth and the creation of mid- to long-
term corporate value are brought about as a result of the provision of resources and contributions made 
by a range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, business partners, creditors and local 
communities. As such, companies should endeavor to appropriately cooperate with these stakeholders. 
The board and the management should exercise their leadership in establishing a corporate culture 
where the rights and positions of stakeholders are respected and sound business ethics are ensured. 
Notes 
Companies have a variety of important stakeholders besides shareholders. These stakeholders include 
internal parties such as employees and external parties such as customers, business partners and creditors. In 
addition, local communities form the foundation for the on-going business activities of companies. 
Companies should fully recognize that appropriate cooperation with these stakeholders is indispensable in 
achieving sustainable growth and increasing corporate value over the mid- to long-term. 
Moreover, given that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted at the United Nations 
Summit and the number of organizations supporting the recommendation of the FSB’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) has increased, there is a growing awareness that sustainability 
(mid-to long-term sustainability including ESG factors) is an important management issue from the 
perspective of increasing mid-to long-term corporate value. In light of this, it is important for Japanese 
companies to further promote positive and proactive responses to sustainability issues. 
The appropriate actions of companies based on the recognition of their stakeholder responsibilities will 
benefit the entire economy and society, which will in turn contribute to producing further benefits to 
companies, thereby creating a virtuous cycle. 
 
 
 
Principle 2.1 Business Principles as the Foundation of Corporate Value Creation Over the Mid- 
to Long-Term 
Guided by their position concerning social responsibility, companies should undertake their 
businesses in order to create value for all stakeholders while increasing corporate value over the mid- 
to long-term. To this end, companies should draft and maintain business principles that will become 
the basis for such activities. 
 
 
Principle 2.2 Code of Conduct 
Companies should draft and implement a code of conduct for employees in order to express their 
values with respect to appropriate cooperation with and serving the interests of stakeholders and 
carrying out sound and ethical business activities. The board should be responsible for drafting and 
revising the code of conduct, and should ensure its compliance broadly across the organization, 
including the front line of domestic and global operations. 
Supplementary Principle 
2.2.1  The board should review regularly (or where appropriate) whether or not the code of conduct is 
being widely implemented. The review should focus on the substantive assessment of whether the 
company’s corporate culture truly embraces the intent and spirit of the code of conduct, and not 
solely on the form of implementation and compliance. 
 
 
Principle 2.3 Sustainability Issues, Including Social and Environmental Matters 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
282 
Companies should take appropriate measures to address sustainability issues, including social and 
environmental matters. 
Supplementary Principle 
2.3.1  The board should recognize that dealing with sustainability issues, such as taking care of climate 
change and other global environmental issues, respect of human rights, fair and appropriate 
treatment of the workforce including caring for their health and working environment, fair and 
reasonable transactions with suppliers, and crisis management for natural disasters, are important 
management issues that can lead to earning opportunities as well as risk mitigation, and should 
further consider addressing these matters positively and proactively in terms of increasing corporate 
value over the mid-to long-term. 
 
 
Principle 2.4 Ensuring Diversity, Including Active Participation of Women 
Companies should recognize that the existence of diverse perspectives and values reflecting a 
variety of experiences, skills and characteristics is a strength that supports their sustainable growth. 
As such, companies should promote diversity of personnel, including the active participation of 
women. 
Supplementary Principle 
2.4.1 
Companies should present their policies and voluntary and measurable goals for ensuring diversity 
in the promotion to core human resources, such as the promotion of women, foreign nationals and 
midcareer hires to middle managerial positions, as well as disclosing their status. 
In addition, in light of the importance of human resource strategies for increasing corporate value 
over the mid-to long-term, companies should present its policies for human resource development 
and internal environment development to ensure diversity, as well as the status of their 
implementation. 
 
 
Principle 2.5 Whistleblowing 
Companies should establish an appropriate framework for whistleblowing such that employees can 
report illegal or inappropriate behavior, disclosures, or any other serious concerns without fear of 
suffering from disadvantageous treatment. Also, the framework should allow for an objective 
assessment and appropriate response to the reported issues, and the board should be responsible for 
both establishing this framework, and ensuring and monitoring its enforcement. 
Supplementary Principle 
2.5.1  As a part of establishing a framework for whistleblowing, companies should establish a point of 
contact that is independent of the management (for example, a panel consisting of outside directors4 
and outside kansayaku5). In addition, rules should be established to secure the confidentiality of the 
information provider and prohibit any disadvantageous treatment.  
 
 
 
4 Outside director: A director who satisfies certain requirements such as not holding specific positions, 
including the position of executive director, in the company or its subsidiaries (Article 2, Paragraph 15 of 
the Companies Act). Furthermore, matters such as not holding a specific position in the parent company or 
other subsidiaries and not having specific kinship ties with controlling shareholders is also required for 
outside directors under the Companies Act. 
 
5 Outside kansayaku: A kansayaku who satisfies certain requirements such as not holding specific positions, 
including the position of director, in the company or its subsidiaries (Article 2, Paragraph 16 of the 
Companies Act). Furthermore, matters such as not holding a specific position in the parent company or 
other subsidiaries and not having specific kinship ties with controlling shareholders is also required for 
outside kansayaku under the Companies Act. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
283 
Principle 2.6 Roles of Corporate Pension Funds as Asset Owners 
Because the management of corporate pension funds impacts stable asset formation for employees 
and companies’ own financial standing, companies should take and disclose measures to improve 
human resources and operational practices, such as the recruitment or assignment of qualified persons, 
in order to increase the investment management expertise of corporate pension funds (including 
stewardship activities such as monitoring the asset managers of corporate pension funds), thus making 
sure that corporate pension funds perform their roles as asset owners. Companies should ensure that 
conflicts of interest which could arise between pension fund beneficiaries and companies are 
appropriately managed. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
284 
Section 3: Ensuring Appropriate Information Disclosure and Transparency 
 
 
General Principle 3 
Companies should appropriately make information disclosure in compliance with the relevant laws 
and regulations, but should also strive to actively provide information beyond that required by law. 
This includes both financial information, such as financial standing and operating results, and non-
financial information, such as business strategies and business issues, risk and governance. 
The board should recognize that disclosed information will serve as the basis for constructive 
dialogue with shareholders, and therefore ensure that such information, particularly non-financial 
information, is accurate, clear and useful. 
Notes 
Companies are legally required to disclose a wide range of information. The timely and appropriate 
disclosure of information in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations is essential for investor 
protection and securing market confidence. The board, kansayaku, the kansayaku board6 and external 
auditors all bear an important responsibility in this regard, starting with the establishment of an appropriate 
internal control system as to financial information. 
Companies should actively strive to provide information other than what is required by laws and 
regulations. 
It has been noted that while the quantitative part of financial statements of Japanese companies conform 
to a standard format and therefore excel with respect to comparability, non-financial information, such as 
financial standing, business strategies, risks and ESG (environmental, social and governance) matters, is 
often boiler-plate and lacking in detail, therefore less valuable. The board should actively commit to ensure 
that disclosed information, including non-financial information, is as valuable and useful as possible. 
Irrespective of whether the disclosed information is required by law, the appropriate provision of 
information is an effective means to develop a shared awareness and understanding with shareholders and 
other stakeholders, in particular given that as outsiders they suffer from information asymmetry. Appropriate 
information disclosure will also contribute to constructive dialogue based on Japan’s Stewardship Code. 
 
 
Principle 3.1 Full Disclosure 
In addition to making information disclosure in compliance with relevant laws and regulations, 
companies should disclose and proactively provide the information listed below (along with the 
disclosures specified by the principles of the Code) in order to enhance transparency and fairness in 
decision-making and ensure effective corporate governance: 
i) 
Company objectives (e.g., business principles), business strategies and business plans; 
ii) Basic views and guidelines on corporate governance based on each of the principles of the 
Code; 
iii) Board policies and procedures in determining the remuneration of the senior management and 
directors; 
iv) Board policies and procedures in the appointment/dismissal of the senior management and the 
nomination of directors and kansayaku candidates; and 
v) Explanations with respect to the individual appointments/dismissals and nominations based on 
iv). 
Supplementary Principles 
3.1.1  These disclosures, including disclosures in compliance with relevant laws and regulations, should 
add value for investors, and the board should ensure that information is not boiler-plate or lacking 
 
6 Kansayaku board: See Notes to the General Principle 4. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
285 
in detail. 
 
3.1.2  Bearing in mind the number of foreign shareholders, companies should, to the extent reasonable, 
take steps for providing English language disclosures. 
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should disclose and provide necessary 
information in their disclosure documents in English. 
 
3.1.3 
Companies should appropriately disclose their initiatives on sustainability when disclosing their 
management strategies. They should also provide information on investments in human capital and 
intellectual properties in an understandable and specific manner, while being conscious of the 
consistency with their own management strategies and issues. 
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should collect and analyze the necessary data 
on the impact of climate change-related risks and earning opportunities on their business activities 
and profits, and enhance the quality and quantity of disclosure based on the TCFD recommendations, 
which are an internationally well-established disclosure framework, or an equivalent framework. 
 
  
Principle 3.2 External Auditors 
External auditors and companies should recognize the responsibility that external auditors owe 
toward shareholders and investors, and take appropriate steps to secure the proper execution of audits. 
Supplementary Principles  
3.2.1 
The kansayaku board should, at minimum, ensure the following: 
 
i) 
Establish standards for the appropriate selection of external auditor candidates and proper 
evaluation of external auditors; and 
 
ii) 
Verify whether external auditors possess necessary independence and expertise to fulfill their 
responsibilities. 
 
3.2.2  The board and the kansayaku board should, at minimum, ensure the following:  
 
i) 
Give adequate time to ensure high quality audits; 
 
ii) 
Ensure that external auditors have access, such as via interviews, to the senior management 
including the CEO and the CFO; 
 
iii) Ensure adequate coordination between external auditors and each of the kansayaku (including 
attendance at the kansayaku board meetings), the internal audit department and outside 
directors; and 
 
iv) Ensure that the company is constituted in the way that it can adequately respond to any 
misconduct, inadequacies or concerns identified by the external auditors. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
286 
Section 4: Responsibilities of the Board 
 
 
General Principle 4 
Given its fiduciary responsibility and accountability to shareholders, in order to promote sustainable 
corporate growth and the increase of corporate value over the mid- to long-term and enhance earnings 
power and capital efficiency, the board should appropriately fulfill its roles and responsibilities, 
including: 
(1) Setting the broad direction of corporate strategy; 
(2) Establishing an environment where appropriate risk-taking by the senior management is 
supported; and 
(3) Carrying out effective oversight of directors and the management (including shikkoyaku7 and 
so-called shikkoyakuin8) from an independent and objective standpoint. 
Such roles and responsibilities should be equally and appropriately fulfilled regardless of the form 
of corporate organization – i.e., Company with Kansayaku Board (where a part of these roles and 
responsibilities are performed by kansayaku and the kansayaku board), Company with Three 
Committees (Nomination, Audit and Remuneration) or Company with Supervisory Committee. 
Notes 
Companies may choose one of three main forms of organizational structure under the Companies Act: 
Company with Kansayaku Board, Company with Three Committees (Nomination, Audit and Remuneration), 
or Company with Supervisory Committee. A Company with Kansayaku Board is a system unique to Japan 
in which certain governance functions are assumed by the board, kansayaku and the kansayaku board. Under 
this system, kansayaku audit the performance of duties by directors and the management and have 
investigation power by law. Also, to secure both independence and high-level information gathering power, 
not less than half of kansayaku, as appointed at the general shareholder meeting, must be outside kansayaku, 
and at least one full-time kansayaku must also be appointed. The latter two forms of organizational structure 
are similar to companies in other countries where committees are established under the board and assigned 
certain responsibilities with the aim of strengthening monitoring functions. Irrespective of which form of 
organizational structure is adopted, what is important is that the various institutions within the company 
effectively and fully execute their responsibilities through creativity and ingenuity. 
One of the major objectives of establishing the Code is to promote transparent, fair, timely and decisive 
decision-making by Japanese companies. The possibility cannot be ruled out that, due to changes in the 
external environment or other factors, a decision made by a company ultimately results in losses for the 
company. In such a circumstance, the reasonableness of the decision-making process at the time of the 
decision is generally considered an important factor in determining whether or not the management and 
directors should owe personal liability for damages. The Code includes principles and practices that are 
expected to contribute to such a reasonable decision-making process, and promote transparency, fairness, 
timeliness and decisiveness as well. 
Controlling shareholders should respect the common interests of the company and its shareholders and 
should not treat minority shareholders unfairly, and accordingly, companies with a controlling shareholder 
are required to develop a governance system to protect the interest of minority shareholders. 
 
 
7 Shikkoyaku: According to the Companies Act, Companies with Three Committees (Nomination, Audit and 
Remuneration) must appoint one or more shikkoyaku from directors or non-directors by a resolution of the 
board and delegate business administration to shikkoyaku. Also, authority to make certain kinds of business 
decisions may be delegated to shikkoyaku. 
 
8 Shikkoyakuin: There are cases where a Company with Kansayaku Board or a Company with Supervisory 
Committee creates positions with the title of “shikkoyakuin” for persons who are delegated by the board a 
certain range of discretion regarding business administration. Unlike shikkoyaku in Companies with Three 
Committees (Nomination, Audit and Remuneration), shikkoyakuin is not a statutory position. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
287 
 
Principle 4.1 Roles and Responsibilities of the Board (1) 
The board should view the establishment of corporate goals (business principles, etc.) and the 
setting of strategic direction as one major aspect of its roles and responsibilities. It should engage in 
constructive discussion with respect to specific business strategies and business plans, and ensure that 
major operational decisions are based on the company’s strategic direction. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.1.1  The board should clearly specify its own decisions as well as both the scope and content of the 
matters delegated to the management, and disclose a brief summary thereof. 
 
4.1.2  Recognizing that a mid-term business plan (chuuki keiei keikaku) is a commitment to shareholders, 
the board and the senior management should do their best to achieve the plan. Should the company 
fail to deliver on its mid-term business plan, the reasons underlying the failure of achievement as 
well as the company’s actions should be fully analyzed, an appropriate explanation should be given 
to shareholders, and analytic findings should be reflected in a plan for the ensuing years. 
 
4.1.3  Based on the company objectives (business principles, etc.) and specific business strategies, the 
board should proactively engage in the establishment and implementation of a succession plan for 
the CEO and other top executives and appropriately oversee the systematic development of 
succession candidates, deploying sufficient time and resources. 
 
 
Principle 4.2 Roles and Responsibilities of the Board (2) 
The board should view the establishment of an environment that supports appropriate risk-taking 
by the senior management as a major aspect of its roles and responsibilities. It should welcome 
proposals from the management based on healthy entrepreneurship, fully examine such proposals 
from an independent and objective standpoint with the aim of securing accountability, and support 
timely and decisive decision-making by the senior management when approved plans are 
implemented. 
Also, the remuneration of the management should include incentives such that it reflects mid- to 
long-term business results and potential risks, as well as promotes healthy entrepreneurship. 
Supplementary Principle 
4.2.1  The board should design management remuneration systems such that they operate as a healthy 
incentive to generate sustainable growth, and determine actual remuneration amounts appropriately 
through objective and transparent procedures. The proportion of management remuneration linked 
to mid- to long-term results and the balance of cash and stock should be set appropriately. 
 
 
4.2.2 
The board should develop a basic policy for the company's sustainability initiatives from the 
perspective of increasing corporate value over the mid- to long- term. 
In addition, in light of the importance of investments in human capital and intellectual properties, 
the board should effectively supervise the allocation of management resources, including such 
investments, and the implementation of business portfolio strategies to ensure that they contribute 
to the sustainable growth of the company. 
 
 
Principle 4.3 Roles and Responsibilities of the Board (3) 
The board should view the effective oversight of the management and directors from an independent 
and objective standpoint as a major aspect of its roles and responsibilities. It should appropriately 
evaluate company performance and reflect the evaluation in its assessment of the senior management. 
In addition, the board should engage in oversight activities in order to ensure timely and accurate 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
288 
information disclosure, and should establish appropriate internal control and risk management 
systems. 
Also, the board should appropriately deal with any conflict of interests that may arise between the 
company and its related parties, including the management and controlling shareholders. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.3.1 
The board should ensure that the appointment and dismissal of the senior management are based on 
highly transparent and fair procedures via an appropriate evaluation of the company’s business 
results. 
 
4.3.2 
Because the appointment/dismissal of the CEO is the most important strategic decision for a 
company, the board should appoint a qualified CEO through objective, timely, and transparent 
procedures, deploying sufficient time and resources. 
 
4.3.3 
The board should establish objective, timely, and transparent procedures such that a CEO is 
dismissed when it is determined, via an appropriate evaluation of the company’s business results, 
that the CEO is not adequately fulfilling the CEO’s responsibilities. 
 
4.3.4  The establishment of effective internal control and proactive enterprise risk management systems 
has the potential to support sound risk-taking. The board should appropriately establish such systems 
on an enterprise basis and oversee the operational status, besides utilizing the internal audit 
department. 
 
  
Principle 4.4 Roles and Responsibilities of Kansayaku and the Kansayaku Board 
Kansayaku and the kansayaku board should bear in mind their fiduciary responsibilities to 
shareholders and make decisions from an independent and objective standpoint when executing their 
roles and responsibilities including the audit of the performance of directors’ duties, appointment and 
dismissal of kansayaku and external auditors, and the determination of auditor remuneration. 
Although so-called “defensive functions,” such as business and accounting audits, are part of the 
roles and responsibilities expected of kansayaku and the kansayaku board, in order to fully perform 
their duties, it would not be appropriate for kansayaku and the kansayaku board to interpret the scope 
of their function too narrowly, and they should positively and proactively exercise their rights and 
express their views at board meetings and to the management. 
Supplementary Principle 
4.4.1  Given that not less than half of the kansayaku board must be composed of outside kansayaku and 
that at least one full-time kansayaku must be appointed in accordance with the Companies Act, the 
kansayaku board should, from the perspective of fully executing its roles and responsibilities, 
increase its effectiveness through an organizational combination of the independence of the former 
and the information gathering power of the latter. In addition, kansayaku or the kansayaku board 
should secure cooperation with outside directors so that such directors can strengthen their capacity 
to collect information without having their independence jeopardized. 
 
 
 
 
Principle 4.5 Fiduciary Responsibilities of Directors and Kansayaku 
With due attention to their fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders, the directors, kansayaku and 
the management of companies should secure the appropriate cooperation with stakeholders and act 
in the interest of the company and the common interests of its shareholders. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
289 
Principle 4.6 Business Execution and Oversight of the Management 
In order to ensure effective, independent and objective oversight of the management by the board, 
companies should consider utilizing directors who are neither involved in business execution nor have 
close ties with the management. 
 
 
Principle 4.7 Roles and Responsibilities of Independent Directors 
Companies should make effective use of independent directors9 , taking into consideration the 
expectations listed below with respect to their roles and responsibilities: 
i) 
Provision of advice on business policies and business improvement based on their knowledge 
and experience with the aim to promote sustainable corporate growth and increase corporate 
value over the mid- to long-term; 
ii) Monitoring of the management through important decision-making at the board including the 
appointment and dismissal of the senior management; 
iii) Monitoring of conflicts of interest between the company and the management or controlling 
shareholders; and 
iv) Appropriately representing the views of minority shareholders and other stakeholders in the 
boardroom from a standpoint independent of the management and controlling shareholders. 
 
 
Principle 4.8 Effective Use of Independent Directors 
Independent directors should fulfill their roles and responsibilities with the aim of contributing 
to sustainable growth of companies and increasing corporate value over the mid- to long-term. 
Companies listed on the Prime Market should therefore appoint at least one-third of their directors 
as independent directors (two directors if listed on other markets) that sufficiently have such 
qualities. 
Irrespective of the above, if a company listed on the Prime Market believes it needs to appoint 
the majority of directors (at least one-third of directors if listed on other markets) as independent 
directors based on a broad consideration of factors such as the industry, company size, business 
characteristics, organizational structure and circumstances surrounding the company, it should 
appoint a sufficient number of independent directors. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.8.1 
In order to actively contribute to discussions at the board, independent directors should endeavor to 
exchange information and develop a shared awareness among themselves from an independent and 
objective standpoint. Regular meetings consisting solely of independent directors (executive 
sessions) would be one way of achieving this. 
 
4.8.2 
Independent directors should endeavor to establish a framework for communicating with the 
management and for cooperating with kansayaku or the kansayaku board by, for example, appointing 
the lead independent director from among themselves. 
 
4.8.3 
Companies that have a controlling shareholder should either appoint at least one-third of their 
directors (the majority of directors if listed on the Prime Market) as independent directors who are 
independent of the controlling shareholder or establish a special committee composed of independent 
persons including independent director(s) to deliberate and review material transactions or actions 
that conflict with the interests of the controlling shareholder and minority shareholders. 
 
9 Independent director: The listing rules of securities exchanges provide that the outside directors, as defined 
in the Companies Act, are independent directors where they satisfy independence criteria of securities 
exchanges and the company determines that they do not have the possibility of conflicts of interest with its 
shareholders. 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
290 
 
 
 
Principle 4.9 Independence Standards and Qualification for Independent Directors 
Boards should establish and disclose independence standards aimed at securing effective 
independence of independent directors, taking into consideration the independence criteria set by 
securities exchanges. The board should endeavor to select independent director candidates who are 
expected to contribute to frank, active and constructive discussions at board meetings. 
 
 
Principle 4.10 Use of Optional Approach 
In adopting the most appropriate organizational structure (as stipulated by the Companies Act) that 
is suitable for a company’s specific characteristics, companies should employ optional approaches, as 
necessary, to further enhance governance functions. 
Supplementary Principle 
4.10.1 If the organizational structure of a company is either Company with Kansayaku Board or Company 
with Supervisory Committee and independent directors do not compose a majority of the board, in 
order to strengthen the independence, objectivity and accountability of board functions on the matters 
of nomination (including succession plan) and remuneration of the senior management and directors, 
the company should seek appropriate involvement and advice from the committees, including from 
the perspective of gender and other diversity and skills, in the examination of such important matters 
as nominations and remuneration by establishing an independent nomination committee and 
remuneration committee under the board, to which such committees make significant contributions. 
In particular, companies listed on the Prime Market should basically have the majority of the 
members of each committee be independent directors, and should disclose the mandates and roles 
of the committees, as well as the policy regarding the independence of the composition. 
 
 
 
 
Principle 4.11 Preconditions for Board and Kansayaku Board Effectiveness 
The board should be well balanced in knowledge, experience and skills in order to fulfill its roles 
and responsibilities, and it should be constituted in a manner to achieve both diversity, including 
gender, international experience, work experience and age, and appropriate size. In addition, persons 
with appropriate experience and skills as well as necessary knowledge on finance, accounting, and the 
law should be appointed as kansayaku. In particular, at least one person who has sufficient expertise 
on finance and accounting should be appointed as kansayaku. 
The board should endeavor to improve its function by analyzing and evaluating effectiveness of the 
board as a whole. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.11.1  The board should identify the skills, etc. that it should have in light of its managing strategies, and 
have a view on the appropriate balance between knowledge, experience and skills of the board as a 
whole, and also on diversity and appropriate board size. Consistent with its view, the board should 
establish policies and procedures for nominating directors and disclose them along with the 
combination of skills, etc. that each director possesses in an appropriate form according to the 
business environment and business characteristics, etc., such as what is known as a "skills matrix.” 
When doing so, independent director(s) with management experience in other companies should be 
included. 
 
4.11.2 Outside directors, outside kansayaku, and other directors and kansayaku should devote sufficient 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
291 
time and effort required to appropriately fulfill their respective roles and responsibilities. Therefore, 
where directors and kansayaku also serve as directors, kansayaku or the management at other 
companies, such positions should be limited to a reasonable number and disclosed each year. 
 
4.11.3 Each year the board should analyze and evaluate its effectiveness as a whole, taking into 
consideration the relevant matters, including the self-evaluations of each director. A summary of the 
results should be disclosed. 
 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
292 
 
Principle 4.12 Active Board Deliberations 
The board should endeavor to foster a climate where free, open and constructive discussions and 
exchanges of views take place, including the raising of concerns by outside directors. 
Supplementary Principle 
4.12.1 The board should ensure the following in relation to the operation of board meetings and should 
attempt to make deliberations active: 
 
i) 
Materials for board meetings are distributed sufficiently in advance of the meeting date; 
 
ii) 
In addition to board materials and as necessary, sufficient information is provided to directors 
by the company (where appropriate, the information should be organized and/or analyzed to 
promote easy understanding); 
 
iii) The schedule of board meetings for the current year and anticipated agenda items are determined 
in advance; 
 
iv) The number of agenda items and the frequency of board meetings are set appropriately; and 
 
v) 
Sufficient time for deliberations. 
 
 
Principle 4.13 Information Gathering and Support Structure 
In order to fulfill their roles and responsibilities, directors and kansayaku should proactively collect 
information, and as necessary, request the company to provide them with additional information. 
Also, companies should establish a support structure for directors and kansayaku, including 
providing sufficient staff. 
The board and the kansayaku board should verify whether information requested by directors and 
kansayaku is provided smoothly. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.13.1 Directors, including outside directors, should request the company to provide them with additional 
information, where deemed necessary from the perspective of contributing to transparent, fair, timely 
and decisive decision-making. In addition, kansayaku, including outside kansayaku, should collect 
information appropriately, including the use of their statutory investigation power. 
 
4.13.2  Directors and kansayaku should consider consulting with external specialists at company expense, 
where they deem it necessary. 
 
4.13.3  Companies should ensure coordination between the internal audit department, directors and 
kansayaku by establishing a system in which the internal audit department appropriately reports 
directly to the board and the kansayaku board in order for them to fulfill their functions. In addition, 
companies should take measures to adequately provide necessary information to outside directors 
and outside kansayaku. One example would be the appointment of an individual who is responsible 
for communicating and handling requests within the company such that the requests for information 
about the company by outside directors and outside kansayaku are appropriately processed. 
 
 
Principle 4.14 Director and Kansayaku Training 
New and incumbent directors and kansayaku should deepen their understanding of their roles and 
responsibilities as a critical governance body at a company, and should endeavor to acquire and update 
necessary knowledge and skills. Accordingly, companies should provide and arrange training 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
293 
opportunities suitable to each director and kansayaku along with financial support for associated 
expenses. The board should verify whether such opportunities and support are appropriately provided. 
Supplementary Principles 
4.14.1 Directors and kansayaku, including outside directors and outside kansayaku, should be given the 
opportunity when assuming their position to acquire necessary knowledge on the company’s business, 
finances, organization and other matters, and fully understand the roles and responsibilities, including 
legal liabilities, expected of them. Incumbent directors should also be given a continuing opportunity 
to renew and update such knowledge as necessary. 
 
4.14.2 Companies should disclose their training policy for directors and kansayaku. 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
294 
Section 5: Dialogue with Shareholders 
 
 
General Principle 5 
In order to contribute to sustainable growth and the increase of corporate value over the mid- to 
long-term, companies should engage in constructive dialogue with shareholders even outside the 
general shareholder meeting. 
During such dialogue, senior management and directors, including outside directors, should listen 
to the views of shareholders and pay due attention to their interests and concerns, clearly explain 
business policies to shareholders in an understandable manner so as to gain their support, and work 
for developing a balanced understanding of the positions of shareholders and other stakeholders and 
acting accordingly. 
Notes 
With the establishment of Japan’s Stewardship Code, institutional investors are encouraged to engage in 
purposeful dialogue (engagement) based on the in-depth knowledge of investee companies and their business 
environment. 
Regularly engaging in dialogue with shareholders to gain their understanding of specific business 
strategies and business plans and taking appropriate action when there are concerns are extraordinarily useful 
for companies to strengthen the foundations of management legitimacy and support their efforts to generate 
sustainable growth. Although the management and directors have opportunities to interact and exchange 
views with employees, business partners and financial institutions on a daily basis, these stakeholders are all 
creditors. In contrast, the management and directors typically have limited interactions with shareholders. If 
the senior management and directors give due attention to the views of shareholders through dialogue, they 
can absorb views and analyses of business management from the perspective of capital providers. Dialogue 
with shareholders should also inspire healthy entrepreneurship in the management and directors and thereby 
contribute to sustainable corporate growth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
295 
  
Principle 5.1 Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders 
Companies should, positively and to the extent reasonable, respond to the requests from 
shareholders to engage in dialogue (management meetings) so as to support sustainable growth and 
increase corporate value over the mid- to long-term. The board should establish, approve and disclose 
policies concerning the measures and organizational structures aimed at promoting constructive 
dialogue with shareholders. 
Supplementary Principles 
5.1.1 
Taking the requests and interests of shareholders into consideration, to the extent reasonable, the 
senior management, directors, including outside directors, and kansayaku, should have a basic 
position to engage in dialogue (management meetings) with shareholders. 
 
5.1.2 
At minimum, policies for promoting constructive dialogue with shareholders should include the 
following: 
 
i) 
Appointing a member of the management or a director who is responsible for overseeing and 
ensuring that constructive dialogue takes place, including the matters stated in items ii) to v) 
below; 
 
ii) Measures to ensure positive cooperation between internal departments such as investor relations, 
corporate planning, general affairs, corporate finance, accounting and legal affairs with the aim 
of supporting dialogue; 
 
iii) Measures to promote opportunities for dialogue aside from individual meetings (e.g., general 
investor meetings and other IR activities); 
 
iv) Measures to appropriately and effectively relay shareholder views and concerns learned through 
dialogue to the senior management and the board; and 
 
v) 
Measures to control insider information when engaging in dialogue. 
  
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
296 
5.1.3 
Companies should endeavor to identify their shareholder ownership structure as necessary, and it is 
desirable for shareholders to cooperate as much as possible in this process. 
 
 
Principle 5.2 Establishing and Disclosing Business Strategies and Business Plans 
When establishing and disclosing business strategies and business plans, companies should 
articulate their earnings plans and capital policies, and present targets for profitability and capital 
efficiency after accurately identifying the company’s cost of capital. Also, companies should provide 
explanations that are clear and logical to shareholders with respect to the allocation of management 
resources, such as reviewing their business portfolio and investments in fixed assets, R&D, and human 
capital, and specific measures that will be taken in order to achieve their plans and targets. 
Supplementary Principle 
5.2.1 
In formulating and announcing business strategies, etc., companies should clearly present the basic 
policy regarding the business portfolio decided by the board and the status of the review of such 
portfolio. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Reference Translation) 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese version. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese version 
shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Regulation, Japan Exchange 
Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage or loss caused by any error, 
inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
297 
Appendix 2 
 
Establishment of Numerical Targets for the Percentage of Female 
Officers at Domestic Companies on the Prime Market 
 
1. Domestic companies on the Prime Market shall strive to appoint at least one female officer 
by 2025. 
2. Domestic companies on the Prime Market shall aim to raise the percentage of their female 
officers to at least 30% by 2030. 
3. The Exchange recommends that domestic companies on the Prime Market develop action 
plans to achieve the above targets. 
*In addition to board members, auditors, and executive officers, the aforementioned female 
officers may include non-statutory executive officers and their equivalents. 
 
