(Provisional Reference Translation)
1 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
Articles of Incorporation 
(as of October 24, 2025) 
 
Japan Exchange Regulation 
 
Chapter 1 
General Provisions 
 
Article 1. Corporate Name 
The corporate name of this self-regulatory corporation (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Corporation") shall be 日本取引所自主規制法人 in Japanese or Japan Exchange 
Regulation in English. 
 
Article 2. Organization and Judicial Status 
The Corporation is a membership legal entity based on the Financial Instruments and 
Exchange Law (Law No.25 of 1948; hereinafter referred to as the "Law"). 
 
Article 3. Office Location 
The main office of the Corporation shall be located in Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, and the secondary 
office shall be located in Chuo-ku, Osaka. 
 
Article 4. Equity Capital 
The equity capital of the Corporation shall be the total amount of capital contributions by 
the members. 
 
Article 5. Method of Public Notice 
The public notice by the Corporation shall be given by means of posting on government 
gazettes. 
 
Chapter 2 
Purpose and Operations 
 
Article 6. Purpose 
1. The purpose of the Corporation shall be to conduct the self-regulatory operations of a 
financial instruments exchange (meaning the self-regulatory operations prescribed in 
Paragraph 2, Article 84 of the Law. The same shall apply hereinafter.). 
2. The Corporation shall conduct its business in order to achieve fair and smooth 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
2 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
transactions of securities and market derivatives in the exchange financial instruments 
market operated by the entrusting financial instruments exchange, and be conducive to 
the sound development of the financial instruments trading business and the protection 
of investors. 
 
Article 7. Operations 
1. The Corporation shall conduct the self-regulatory operations listed in each of the 
following Items upon the entrustment of the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange(s). 
(1) Operations relating to listing and delisting of financial instruments, financial 
indicators or options (hereinafter referred to as the "financial instruments, etc.") 
provided by the entrusting financial instruments exchange(s) (excluding operations 
relating to listing and delisting of the financial instruments, etc. for specified market 
derivatives trading (meaning market derivatives trading where the issue(s) of financial 
instruments for such market derivatives transactions are specified in the Business 
Regulations and other rules and regulations of the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange(s). The same shall apply hereinafter.) 
(2) Inspections on trading participants or members of the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange(s) (hereinafter referred to as the "trading participants, etc." about their 
compliance with laws and regulations, disposition by the administrative agencies 
based on laws and regulations, the articles of incorporation and any other rules of the 
entrusting financial instruments exchange(s), or the fair and equitable principle of 
trading 
(3) Detailed Examinations of securities trading or market derivatives trading carried out 
by the trading participants, etc. in the exchange financial instruments market 
(excluding examination instantaneously carried out for expediting securities trading or 
market derivatives trading in the exchange financial instruments market) 
(4) Examination of qualifications of the trading participants, etc. 
(5) Operations related to disposition and any other measures against the trading 
participants, etc. 
(6) Examinations on information disclosure by the issuer of listed securities with regard 
to the issuer t, and operations regarding disposition and other measures to be taken 
against the issuer of listed securities 
(7) Drawing-up, amendments, or abolition of the Business Regulations and other rules of 
the entrusting financial instruments exchange(s) listed in each of the preceding Items 
(hereinafter referred to as the "Specified Self-Regulatory Operations") (excluding 
criteria for listing and delisting of financial instruments, etc. as well as criteria for 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
3 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
granting qualifications of the trading participants, etc.) 
(8) Preparation of the summary of proposals for a general meeting or a general 
shareholders meeting of the entrusting financial instruments exchange pertaining to 
any amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the entrusting financial 
instruments exchange concerning the Specified Self-Regulatory Operations 
(excluding amendments to the Articles of Incorporation concerning criteria for listing 
and delisting of financial instruments, etc. and criteria for granting qualifications of 
the Trading Participants, etc.) 
2. The Corporation shall give consent to the financial instruments exchange concerning 
amendment or abolition of the Self-Regulatory Operations related matters provided by 
the Business Regulations and other rules of the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange, pursuant to the provisions of laws and regulations, give advices, if it deems 
necessary, on measures that should be taken against the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange, and conduct operations incidental to the operations listed in each of the 
preceding Items. 
 
Chapter 3 
Members 
 
Article 8. Members 
The members of the Corporation shall be limited to financial instruments exchanges and 
financial instruments exchange holding companies. 
 
Article 9. Equity Contributions 
1. The amount of a unit of equity contribution by a member shall be JPY 3 billion. 
2. The amount of a contribution must be paid in total at one time. 
 
Article 10. Prohibition of Transfer of Right to Receive Refund of Membership Equity, 
Etc. 
No member may transfer, promise to transfer, or pledge its right to receive refund of the 
membership equity to any other person, except as otherwise provided by Article 13. 
 
Article 11. Admission to Membership 
1. Procedures for the admission to membership shall be as prescribed by this Article. 
2. An entity who wishes to obtain membership (hereinafter referred to as the "Membership 
Admission Applicant") shall be given a consent by over two thirds of the total members 
at the time of admission to membership. 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
4 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
3. The Membership Applicant who has obtained consent as prescribed in the preceding 
paragraph shall pay the membership equity contribution money, the admission fee, and 
the initiation fee to the Corporation by a date designated by the Corporation. However, 
in cases where the Membership Admission Applicant has taken over a Membership 
Equity the applicant is not required to pay the Membership Equity Contribution Money 
and the Admission fee. 
4. The amount of the Admission Fee shall be determined by the Corporation, based on an 
amount (where the ordinary general meeting has not yet been convened as of the 
membership admission date, an amount estimated to be that amount) divided by the 
number of members as of the end of the immediately prior fiscal year, (where the 
balance of the surplus as of the end of the immediately prior fiscal year is negative, an 
amount minus this amount). The amount comprises the amounts of basic reserve, 
reserve for which usage purpose is limited (hereinafter referred to as "reserve for 
specific purposes") and special reserve (including amounts transferred as reserve for 
specific purposes and special reserve respectively by resolution made at the ordinary 
general meeting) as of the end of the immediately prior fiscal year approved at the 
ordinary general meeting for the fiscal year immediately prior to the fiscal year 
containing the membership admission date. 
5. The amount of the Initiation Fee shall be decided by resolution of the general meeting 
of the Corporation. 
6. The Membership Applicant who has taken the procedures prescribed by Paragraph 3 
shall become a member on the day (where a proviso in the same Paragraph is applied, 
the day decided by the Corporation) following the date designated by the Corporation 
pursuant to the provisions in the same paragraph. 
 
Article 12. Withdrawal from Membership 
1. A member may withdraw from membership upon obtaining consent of over two thirds 
of the total members. 
2. A member shall withdraw from membership in the following events in addition to cases 
in the preceding paragraph. 
(1) Where the member ceases to be the financial instruments exchange or the financial 
instruments exchange holding company 
(2) Where the member is dissolved 
3. The amount of the membership equity which will be refunded to the member who 
withdraws from membership shall be an amount obtained by adding the amount stated 
in Item (1) to the amount of its paid-in equity contribution and subtracting the amount 
stated in Item (2) from the amount of its paid-in equity contribution. 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
5 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
(1) The total amount (where the balance of the surplus as of the end of the immediately 
prior fiscal year is negative, an amount minus this amount) comprising the amounts of 
basic reserve, reserve for specific purposes and special reserve (including amounts 
transferred as reserve for specific purposes and special reserve respectively by 
resolution made at the ordinary general meeting) as of the end of the immediately 
prior fiscal year approved at the ordinary general meeting for the fiscal year 
immediately prior to the fiscal year containing the date of withdrawal from the 
membership, divided by the number of members as of the end of the immediately 
prior fiscal year 
(2) Where the Corporation has a significant amount of extraordinary expenditures as of 
the date of withdrawal from the membership, an amount decided by the Corporation at 
the ordinary general meeting, out of that amount, divided by the number of members 
as of the day preceding the withdrawal date 
4. The underlying assets for refund prescribed in the preceding Paragraph shall be 
disposed of from the amount of the equity capital as of the end of the fiscal year 
immediately prior to the fiscal year containing the withdrawal date divided by the 
number of members as of the end of the immediately prior fiscal year, the amount of the 
basic reserve as of the end of the fiscal year immediately prior to the fiscal year 
containing the withdrawal date divided by the number of members as of the end of the 
immediately prior fiscal year, the amount of reserve for specific purposes as oft the end 
of the immediately prior fiscal year divided by the number of members as at the end of 
the immediately prior fiscal year divided by the number of members as at the end of the 
immediately prior fiscal year, and special reserve, in this order. 
 
Article 13. Transfer of Membership Equity 
The membership equity may be only transferred to an entity who will become a member at 
the same time and on condition that the withdrawing member withdraws from membership 
by obtaining the consent of two thirds or more of the total members. 
 
Chapter 4 
Organizations 
 
Section 1 
General Meetings 
 
Article 14. Convocation of General Meetings 
The general meetings comprise ordinary general meetings and extraordinary general 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
6 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
meetings. An ordinary general meeting shall be convened within three months from the end 
of every fiscal year, and an extraordinary general meeting shall be convened from time to 
time whenever necessary. 
 
Article 15. Convener and Chairperson of General Meeting 
1. Based on resolution by the board of governors, the president shall convene a general 
meeting at which he/she shall preside as chairperson. 
2. The President must immediately take procedures for convening a general meeting if one 
fifth or more of the members with voting rights for the relevant agenda have requested 
convocation of a general meeting, showing the agenda and the reason for the 
convocation. 
3. The convocation of a general meeting as prescribed in the preceding two paragraphs 
shall be conducted by notifying each member of the meeting date, time, place, and 
agendas at least five days prior to the meeting day. 
4. Resolutions may be only made for the agendas notified beforehand pursuant to the 
provisions in the preceding paragraph. 
 
Article 16. Quorum of General Meeting 
1. No general meeting may be held unless a majority of the members holding voting rights 
for the relevant agendas attend the meeting. 
2. Members who have submitted a written document for exercising voting rights pursuant 
to the provisions in Paragraph 4 of the following Article shall be deemed to have been 
attending the general meeting. 
 
Article 17. Resolution Method, Exercise of Voting Rights by Members, Etc. 
1. Proceedings of general meetings shall be resolved by a majority of the voting rights of 
the members present, except as otherwise provided by these Articles of Incorporation. 
2. Each member shall have one voting right. 
3. No member shall have voting right in cases where it has a special interest in the 
resolution of the general meeting. 
4. The Member may exercise its voting right by submitting a written document to the 
Chairperson of the general meeting if the Board of Governors approves the exercise of 
the voting right by means of the written document. 
 
Article 18. Minutes 
Minutes (including electronic records; the same shall apply hereinafter) of a general 
meeting must be prepared, and the summary of the proceedings and their results must be 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
7 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
stated or recorded therein. The Chairperson of the general meeting, governors present, 
auditors present, and at least one member present at the general meeting must either 
provide their names and seals or their electronic signatures on the minutes. 
 
Section 2 
Officers 
 
Article 19. Number of Officers 
The Corporation shall have the following officers. 
President: 
1 
Governors: 3 or more but 8 or less 
Auditors: 
2 
 
Article 20. Election of Governors 
1. Directors shall be elected by resolution of general meetings. 
2. A majority of Governors must be external governors (meaning external governors 
prescribed in Paragraph 3 of Article 102-23 of the Law. The same shall apply 
hereinafter.) and, in addition, external governors shall be elected from among persons 
with excellent insight who can make fair decision concerning the Self-regulatory 
Operations excluding the persons falling under any of the following Items. 
(1) Persons engaged in regular business directly related to the financial instruments 
trading business 
(2) Persons engaged in the regular business of a company which is an issuer of securities 
listed on the exchange financial instruments market established by the entrusting 
financial instruments exchange(s) 
3. Governors (hereinafter referred to as the "Independent Governors" elected pursuant to 
the provisions in the preceding paragraph may not be engaged in the operations of the 
entrusting financial instruments exchange, regular business of a company conducting 
operations directly related to the financial instrument transaction business or regular 
business of a company which is an issuer of securities listed on the exchange financial 
instruments market established by the entrusting financial instruments exchange during 
their term of office. 
4. No governors may be reelected no more than twice. 
 
Article 21. Election of President 
1. The President shall be elected from among the Independent Governors by mutual votes 
of the Governors. 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
8 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
2. During his/her term of office, the President may not be an officer of other corporation 
or any other body (excluding a part-time officer of a not-for-profit organization) or may not 
engage himself/herself in profit making business, without obtaining approval of the Board of 
Governors. 
 
Article 22. Election of Full-Time Governors 
1. The Board of Governors shall, by its resolution, appoint full-time governors from 
among governors other than the President. 
2. The Board of Governors may appoint senior managing governors and managing 
governors from among full-time governors. 
3. The provisions in Paragraph 3 of Article 20 and Paragraph 2 of the preceding Article 
shall be applied mutatis mutandis to full-time governors. 
 
Article 23. Election of Auditors 
1. Auditors shall be elected by resolution of a general meeting(s). 
2. Only one full-time auditor shall be appointed by resolution of a general meeting. 
3. The provisions in Paragraph 3 of Article 20 and Paragraph 2 of Article 21 shall be 
applied mutatis mutandis to the full-time auditor. In this case the term "approval of the 
Board of Governors" in Paragraph 2 of Article 21 shall be deemed to be replaced with 
"consent of all the other auditors". 
 
Article 24. Duties of Governors 
1. The President shall represent and comprehensibly manage operations of the 
Corporation. 
2. The full-time governors shall conduct operations of the Corporation, assisting the 
President. 
3. The governors shall organize the Board of Governors and supervise execution of duties 
by other Governors. 
4. In the case that the office of President is vacant or in the absence or disability of the 
President, the Corporation shall select a governor who will represent the Corporation 
and execute the duties of the President on his/her own responsibilities or as deputy, 
pursuant to the provisions in the Rules for the Board of Governors as prescribed in 
Article 37. 
5. The Corporation may give a full-time governor the authority to represent the 
Corporation by resolution of the Board of Governors if it deems necessary. 
6. If it is deemed necessary, a governor(s) may attend meetings of the Board of Directors 
or the Board of Governors of the entrusting financial instruments exchange, and express 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
9 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
his/her opinion at such meetings. 
 
Article 25. Duties of Auditors 
1. Auditors audit operations and accounting of the Corporation. 
2. Auditors shall inspect the documents specified in Paragraph 2 of Article 44 that the 
President submits to the general meeting, and shall convey their opinions in the general 
meetings. 
3. Auditors may attend meetings of the Board of Governors and express their opinions at 
such meetings. 
 
Article 26. Term of Office of Officers 
1. A governor’s term of office shall expire at the close of the ordinary general meeting for 
the last fiscal year which terminates within two years from his/her election. 
2. An auditor’s term of office shall expire at the close of the ordinary general meeting for 
the last fiscal year which terminates within four years from his/her election. 
Article 27. Dismissal of Officers 
An officer shall not be dismissed except for cases where he/she falls under any of the 
following items and a majority of members attend the general meeting at which a 
four-fifths majority of members present gives consent by resolution. 
(1) Where the officer is deemed unable to execute his or her duties due to mental or 
physical disorder 
(2) Where the officer is deemed to have violated his or her duties or committed any other 
improper act as an officer 
 
Article 28. Remuneration of Officers 
The total amount of the remuneration for officers shall be decided by resolution of a 
general meeting(s). 
 
Section 3 
Board of Governors 
 
Article 29. Authority of Board of Governors, Etc. 
1. The Board of Governors shall execute the following duties. 
(1) Decision on matters prescribed in the Articles of Incorporation and decision on the 
execution of operations of the Corporation 
(2) Supervision of the execution of duties of governors 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
10 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
(3) Dismissal of the President 
(4) Appointment and dismissal of senior managing governors, managing governors, or 
full-time governors 
2. The President and full-time governors must report to the Board of Governors on the 
state of execution of their own duties once or more times every three months. 
 
Article 30. Convocation of the Board of Governors 
1.  A meeting of the Board of Governors shall be convened by the President, who shall 
preside as chairperson. 
2. If a governor requests to convene a meeting of the Board of Governors by presenting 
issues to be discussed at a Board of Governors meeting and a reason for the 
convocation, the President must immediately convene a meeting of the Board of 
Directors. 
 
Article 31. Convocation Notice Regarding the Board of Governors, etc. 
1. When convening a Board of Governors meeting, convocation notice regarding the 
meeting shall be given to each governor and each auditor at least a week prior to the 
meeting day (if a shorter period is decided in a meeting of the Board of Governors, that 
period shall be deferred to). 
2. With the consent of all governors, a Board of Governors meeting may be convened 
without taking convocation procedures. 
 
Article 32. Method of Resolution by Board of Governors 
1. A resolution of the Board of Governors shall be adopted if a majority of the governors 
who are entitled to participate in a vote are present, and a majority of governors present 
and a majority of the Independent Governors present both approve. 
2. No governor with a special interest in a resolution of the Board of Governors may 
participate in a vote. 
 
Article 32-2. Omission of Resolution by Board of Governors 
A resolution of the Board of Governors is deemed to be adopted if all governors who may 
participate in a vote approve such a resolution in writing or in an electromagnetic record. 
 
Article 33. Grasping of Situations About Execution of Operations by the Entrusting 
Financial Instruments Exchange 
1. The Board of Governors shall receive reports on the status of business execution from 
the entrusting financial instruments exchange twice or more a year. 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
11 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
2. The Board of Governors may, if it deems necessary, request governors, directors, 
executive officers, managers and other employees of the entrusting financial instruments 
exchange to submit reports on matters concerning the execution of their duties. 
 
Article 34. Consent to Changes in Business Regulations, Etc. of Entrusting Financial 
Instruments Exchange 
Procedures for the Corporation's giving consent in cases where the entrusting financial 
instruments exchange intends to amend or abolish the Self-regulatory Operations related 
matters which are prescribed in the Business Regulations and/or other rules of the 
exchange shall be provided in the Rules for the Board of Governors as prescribed in Article 
37. 
 
Article 35. Advice to Entrusting Financial Instruments Exchange 
By its own resolution the Board of Governors may, if it deems necessary, give the 
entrusting financial instruments exchange any advice on measures to be taken in order to 
achieve fair and smooth securities trading and market derivatives trading in the financial 
instruments market operated by the entrusting financial instruments exchange, and to be 
conducive to the sound development of the financial instruments trading business and the 
protection of investors. 
 
Article 36. Minutes  
Minutes of the Board of Governors meeting must be prepared, and the summary of the 
proceedings and their results must be stated or recorded therein. The governors and 
auditors present at the meeting must either provide their names and seals or their electronic 
signatures on the minutes. 
 
Article 37. Rules on Council 
Matters concerning the Board of Governors shall be subject to the Board of Governors 
Rules prescribed by the Board of Governors in addition to laws and regulations and/or 
these Articles of Incorporation. 
 
Section 4 
Advisory Committee 
 
Article 38. Consultation Committee 
1. An advisory committee(s) shall be established within the Corporation. 
2. With respect to key issues concerning the operations of the Corporation, an advisory 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
12 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
committee(s) may give advice in response to any inquiry of the Board of Governors or 
express opinions to the Board of Governors. 
3. Composition and procedures of the Advisory Committees, and other matters necessary 
for running the Advisory Committees shall be subject to the Advisory Committees 
Rules as adopted by the Board of Governors. 
 
 
Chapter 5 
Business Regulations, Etc. 
 
Article 39. Business Regulations 
1. Matters concerning operations prescribed in Paragraph 1 of Article 7 shall be prescribed 
by the Business Regulations in addition to these Articles of Incorporation. 
2. The Business Regulations may be established or amended by Board of Governors 
resolution. 
 
Article 40. Detailed Rules 
In addition to the rules separately prescribed in these Articles of Incorporation, detailed 
rules necessary for the operations of the Corporation shall be adopted by the President. 
 
Chapter 6 
Accounting 
 
Article 41. Payment of Expenses 
Expenses of the Corporation shall be mainly covered by the business entrustment fees 
pertaining to the Self-regulatory Operations entrusted by the entrusting financial 
instruments exchange(s). 
 
Article 42. Fiscal Year 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be from April 1 to March 31 of the following year. 
 
Article 43. Budget 
1. The Corporation shall prepare budgets for each fiscal year by resolution of the Board of 
Governors. 
2. If the Corporation deems it necessary to amend the budgets in the preceding paragraph, 
it may do so by resolution of the Board of Governors. 
 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
13 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
Article 44. Account Settlement 
1. The Corporation shall close its account at the end of each fiscal year. 
2. The President must prepare written documents listed in each of the following Items by 
resolution of the Board of Governors immediately after closing the account and submit 
them to auditors. 
(1) Balance sheet 
(2) Income statement 
(3) Business report including the summary of operations, the state of officers and 
employees and other reports on operations 
(4) Written document calculating the amount of net assets 
(5) Table showing individual notes 
(6) Inventory of assets 
3. Documents listed in Items (1), (2) and (4) of the preceding paragraph must be prepared 
in accordance with the corporate accounting standards which are generally considered 
fair and appropriate. 
4. The President must keep the documents listed in Paragraph 2 and auditors' report 
thereon in the office and submit them for the members' inspection. 
 
Article 45. Approval of Accounting Documents 
The President must submit the documents listed in Paragraph 2 of the preceding Article to 
an ordinary general meeting and seek its approval. 
 
Article 46. Appropriation of Surplus 
1. In the event net profit for the current term arises at the account settlement prescribed in 
Article 44, such profit shall be treated as a surplus, and if the balance of the surplus 
becomes positive as a result, the total amount shall be appropriated by resolution of the 
general meeting as follows. 
(1) Reserve for specific purposes 
(2) Special reserve 
2. In the event net loss for the current term is incurred at the account settlement prescribed 
in Article 44, such loss shall be treated as a negative surplus, and if the balance of the 
surplus becomes negative as a result, and if there is special reserve, such reserve shall 
be transferred to supplement the surplus by resolution of the general meeting. 
3. Reserve for specific purpose may be liquidated and used by resolution of a general 
meeting (where it is used for that specific purpose or where it is used to refund the 
membership equity pursuant to the provisions of Article 12, by resolution of the Board 
of Governors). 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
14 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
4. The special reserve may be liquidated and used by resolution of a general meeting 
(where it is used to refund the membership equity pursuant to the provisions of Article 12, by 
resolution of the Council). 
 
Article 47. Accumulation of Basic Reserve 
1. Admission fees paid-in pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 3 of Article 11 shall be 
accumulated into basic reserve whenever their payment is received. 
2. Basic reserve shall only be paid out in cases where the equity capital of the Corporation 
is increased or where membership equity is refunded pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 12. 
 
Article 48. Accounting Rules 
Necessary matters regarding budgets, account settlements and other accounting of the 
Corporation shall be decided in accordance with the accounting rules. 
 
Article 49. Distribution of Residual Properties 
Where the Corporation is dissolved and there are residual properties after settling all of its 
credit and debt, the residual amount shall be equally divided and distributed to members as 
at the time of the resolution of the dissolution. 
 
Chapter 7 
Miscellaneous Rules 
 
Article 50. Resolution of Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Dissolution of the 
Corporation 
Resolution of amendments to the Articles of Incorporation or dissolution of the 
Corporation shall be adopted if three quarters or more of the members who can vote at the 
general meeting are present, and a three quarters or more majority of the members approve. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
(First Fiscal Year) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 42, the first fiscal year of the Corporation after 
its establishment shall be from the establishment day of the Corporation to March 31, 
2008. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on July 16, 2013. 
(Provisional Reference Translation)
15 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of 
the original Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese 
version, the Japanese version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation,
Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for damage 
or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on April 1, 2014. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
1. These revisions shall take effect on March 20, 2017. 
2. With regard to the term of office of governors and auditors who are in office at the time 
of the enforcement of this revised provision and who are elected as a result of an 
increase in the number of governors or as a substitute, the provisions of paragraph 1of 
Article 26 after the revision shall apply to governors, and the provisions of paragraph 2 
of Article 26 shall apply to auditors, respectively, notwithstanding the resolution of the 
general meeting pertaining to such election. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on October 22, 2020. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on October 24, 2025. 
