 
(Provisional Reference Translation) 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese 
version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Osaka 
Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for 
damage or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
1
Enforcement Rules for the Business Regulations 
 (as of July 16, 2013) 
 
Japan Exchange Regulation 
 
Chapter 1 
Purpose 
 
Rule 1. Purpose 
These Rules prescribe matters decided by Japan Exchange Regulation (hereinafter referred 
to as "JPX-R") in accordance with the Business Regulations (hereinafter referred to as the 
"Regulations"). 
 
Chapter 2 
Inspection 
 
Rule 2. Inspection 
Inspection as prescribed in Rule 10, Paragraph 1 of the Regulations shall be as prescribed 
in this Chapter. 
 
Rule 3. Inspector 
Inspection shall be carried out by an inspector appointed by JPX-R from among the 
employees of JPX-R (hereinafter referred to as an "Inspector"); provided, however, that an 
assistant may be employed, where JPX-R deems it necessary. 
 
Rule 4. Request of Data, etc. 
Inspectors shall require an officer or employee of Trading Participants to present or allow 
perusal of its ledgers, documents and other articles, or submission of data or explanation of 
facts and preparation, etc. of documents stating details of such explanation that are deemed 
necessary. 
 
Rule 5. Duties of Inspectors 
Inspectors must observe the matters listed in each of the following items. 
(1) All of  the Inspection must be carried out on the basis of facts.  
(2) Where acknowledging facts, decisions on disposition and representation of opinions 
are carried out, inspectors must always be fair. 
 
Rule 6. Notice of Inspection Plans 
JPX-R shall notify Trading Participants in advance of an inspection plan for every fiscal 
 
(Provisional Reference Translation) 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese 
version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Osaka 
Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for 
damage or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
2
year. 
 
Rule 7. Inspection Method and Timing 
1. Inspection shall be carried out by visiting the head office, other sales office or the principal 
office and other office (hereinafter referred to as an "outlet") of a Trading Participant; 
provided, however, that it shall be carried out by documents submitted by such Trading 
Participant to JPX-R, where JPX-R deems it necessary. 
2. JPX-R shall carry out the inspection in the preceding paragraph upon a Trading Participant 
whenever JPX-R deems it necessary. 
 
Rule 8. Notice of Inspection 
Where JPX-R carries out inspection by visiting outlets of a Trading Participant, JPX-R 
shall notify such Trading Participant of the commencement day and the inspection method, 
the name of the Inspector and any other necessary matters; provided, however, that the 
same shall not apply where JPX-R deems it unnecessary. 
 
Rule 9. Presentation of Inspector Identification Card  
An Inspector shall present his or her inspector identification card upon the commencement 
of inspection work. 
 
Rule 10. Acknowledging Facts 
Acknowledging facts as prescribed in Rule 5, Item (2) shall be as prescribed in each of the 
following items. 
(1) Where an Inspector has acknowledged facts, and where there is a difference in the 
recognition concerning such fact acknowledgement between said Inspector and the 
Trading Participant, JPX-R shall receive a written appeal from said Trading 
Participant.  
(2) Where JPX-R receives a written appeal as described in the preceding item, it shall 
carry out proceedings of determining such relationship of fact in a fair manner. 
(3) Where JPX-R has carried out the proceedings as in the preceding item, it shall 
require the Trading Participant and the Inspector to submit a report or data which will 
be references for carrying out a fact finding or a hearing, when necessary. 
(4) Where JPX-R decides the results of the proceedings in Item (2), it shall notify such 
Trading Participant of that fact without delay. 
 
Rule 11. Notice of Inspection Results  
Where inspection is completed, JPX-R shall notify the Trading Participant of the results of 
the inspection. 
 
 
(Provisional Reference Translation) 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese 
version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Osaka 
Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for 
damage or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
3
Rule 12. Cooperative Inspection, etc. 
1. JPX-R shall carry out cooperative inspection with Japan Securities Dealers Association or 
the Financial Futures Association of Japan, where JPX-R deems it necessary.  
2. Where a Trading Participant is a member or a trading participant of another financial 
instruments exchange in Japan other than the entrusting financial instruments exchange 
and JPX-R deems it necessary, JPX-R shall carry out joint inspection with such financial 
instruments exchange. 
 
Chapter 3 
Stocks Under Trading Supervision 
 
Rule 13. Report on Transaction Details, etc. Pertaining to Stocks Under Trading 
Supervision 
Reports that JPX-R requires a Trading Participant pursuant to the provisions of Rule 19, 
Paragraph 2 of the Regulations shall be in accordance with each of the following items. 
(1) JPX-R shall require a report to be submitted in a method prescribed by JPX-R 
concerning transaction details, etc. for a period deemed necessary by JPX-R before 
the day on which designation as a stock under trading supervision is made, by Friday 
(where it falls under a holiday, it shall be moved later. The same shall apply to the 
next item) in a week following the week of the day on which such report is required 
by JPX-R.  
(2) JPX-R shall require a report to be submitted in a method prescribed by JPX-R 
concerning transaction details, etc. for the period from the day of designation as a 
stock under trading supervision to when cancellation of the designation under the 
provisions of the following rule is made, by Friday in the week of the day on which 
such transaction, etc. is affected.  
 
Rule 14. Removal of Designation of Stock Under Trading Supervision 
The case that JPX-R prescribes in Rule 19, Paragraph 3 of the Regulations is where an 
amendment report stating that the holding ratio of the share certificates, etc. has fallen 
below 5% is submitted by a person, who has purchased and collected a considerable 
number of share certificates, etc. issued by the issuer of the share certificates of a stock 
under trading supervision and where JPX-R deems it unnecessary in consideration of the 
movement of the price and other state of transactions, etc. of the stock under trading 
supervision. 
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These Enforcement Rules for the Business Regulations shall be implemented on 
November 1, 2007. 
 
(Provisional Reference Translation) 
 
 
 
DISCLAIMER: This translation may be used for reference purposes only. This English version is not an official translation of the original 
Japanese document. In cases where any differences occur between the English version and the original Japanese version, the Japanese 
version shall prevail. This translation is subject to change without notice. Japan Exchange Regulation, Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc., Osaka 
Exchange, Inc., Japan Exchange Group, Inc., and/or their affiliates shall individually or jointly accept no responsibility or liability for 
damage or loss caused by any error, inaccuracy, misunderstanding, or changes with regard to this translation. 
4
 
Supplementary Provisions 
These revisions shall take effect on July 16, 2013. 
 
